\¡Muchas gracias querido Gerry!

You are very welcome.

\I'm going slow but at steady pace.

Slow but steady wins the race. Don't lose heart.

\Thank you for your pointings to some details in the instrucciones.
\I've already finish with the SAL Monet instructions, but Glossary is still waiting for me to take a look.

No problem.

\I'm still looking for an opportunity to expose Español llano to some students.
\I've proposed a tutorial on "Natural Language Programming" for an Embedded congress here at my university, but they were not interested enough.

Sad, but not entirely unexpected.

\Anyway, the attendees will be too technical people and I have not too technical examples.
\Being a man too formed on engineering, I wonder if I need to do a tutorial with the classical order for such people, something like:
\1. The assigments.
\2. The conditionals.
\3. The loop.
\4. The routine.
\5. The deciders.
\in some orderly fashion.
\Even examples more technical like the ones I've been trying on Project Euler, do you remember?

Yes, I remember, and I understand why you propose that, but I think you will fail with that strategy.
It is nearly impossible to convince a technical person that...

1. "Put 10 into a number" is better than "x=10"; (assignments)
2. nested conditionals are unnecessary; (conditionals)
3. simple, non-nested loops are sufficient; (loops)
4. routines should have multiple names; and (routines)
5. "yes" and "no" are not the same as boolean values (eg, "return  > 3" (deciders)

It is better to start like with these two thoughts:

"Most of what most programs do is NOT mathematical in nature,
so it is silly to use a mathematical syntax as a basis for a general-purpose programming language."

"Most of what most programs do can be clearly and conviently expressed in natural language,
so it is wise to adopt a natural language syntax as the framework for a general-purpose programming language."

Perhaps you need to re-read (at least) the first two articles on our blog:

https://osmosianplainenglishprogramming.blog

Here is a pertinent passage from the first of those articles (modified to include Spanish):

---

At the lowest level, things look like this:

Para agregar un número en otro número;
To add a number to another number:
Intel $8B85080000008B008B9D0C0000000103.

Note that in this case we have both the highest and lowest of languages — Spanish, English and machine code (in hexadecimal) — in a single sentence!
The insight here is that a program should be written primarily in a natural language, with snippets of code in more appropriate syntax as (and only as) required.
Like a typical math book: mostly natural language with formula snippets interspersed.

We hope someday the technology will be extended, at the high end, to include Plain French, Plain German, etc;
and at the the low end to include “snippet parsers” for the most useful, domain-specific languages.

---

If your audience is not impressed with (or at least curious about) THAT, I don't think you'll ever win them over.

Please take another look at those articles; I wrote them with "technical" people in mind.

But feel free to do as you think best. I'm on your side whatever you do.

\And also I wonder how to interface Español llano (even Plain English) to an Arduino, like your project with the Maze Solver.

The LEGO Maze was easy to interface because the pc-control.uk people wrote a Windows DLL that we could call
to talk to their devices.

\I guess the hardware driver are key to this but many kits work thru simple USB-RS232.

I'm pretty sure that Windows has built-in functions that will let us talk to a USB port as if it was a serial port.
But I will have to get Dan to hunt them down and wrap them up for us.
And we will need a circuit of some kind to test them with.
I will talk to Dan about this.

\In the meantime, I will finish the revision of Glossary.

Good idea. Each of the five "technical" things you listed above is covered there:

1. HABILIDADES BÁSICAS, page 83 (assignments)
2. CONDICIONALES, page 63 (conditionals) 
3. LAZOS, page 90 (loops)
4. PROCEDIMIENTOS, page 101 and FUNCIONES, page 81 (routines)
5. DECIDERS, page 72 (deciders)

God bless you and your family. How is Martín Amín progressing? How old is he now?

Gerry

