Hi Gerry

Your "comments" are in blue in here too. I'm in black.
\ Okay... but I'm going to need a little more detail. I have lots of questions for you.
\ Forgive me if I sound too blunt; I have to make the most of what little time I have.
\ I certainly don't want to discourage you.
You're not too blunt. I've been married 28 years; my wife's been nothing but blunt to me.

\ The initial translation of what?
Of whatever I translate using Google Translate.

\ The whole instruction manual?
Yes.
\ Or just the handful of articles, conjunctions, prepositions, and keywords on page 11?
All of those.
\ What about the hundreds of menu commands and error messages?
I'll get there, too.
\ And the hundreds of types and constants in the Noodle?
Yes.
\ And the 1,700 general-purpose routine headers in the Noodle?
Yes.
\ And the sample program?
Yes.
\ And into what language? Italian? Filipino? Tagalog? (Google doesn't translate to Tagalog as far as I know)
I plan on translating CAL to Italian first. I might call it CALI. When I'm done with that, I'll go to work on the Tagalog translation. I think I'll call it KALOG.


\ To which of the above does "it" refer?
All of the above.


\ Exactly what IS your native language?
\ Where did you grow up? Where do you live?
\ What language do you speak with your family and friends and coworkers?
I grew up in the Philippines in a town that spoke Ilongo. 
  Ilongo is equivalent to Hiligaynon.
  Tagalog is equivalent to Filipino.
  Tagalog/Filipino is the national language of the Philippines.

I came over to the USA at 21 years old and I stayed here. I'm almost 50 now so I've lived mostly in the USA. 
I came to the Virginia first but I've lived in Los Angeles, California for practically all of my living here in the US.
I speak English with everybody except for my wife (who came from the same region in the Philippines as me) with whom I converse in both English and Hiligaynon.
I have a son who speaks Italian and Spanish (as well as English, of course) for having lived abroad for a year.
I have a daughter who is learning French.
I have many friends who speak Tagalog.
I have friends who speak other foreign languages but Tagalog and Hiligaynon are the only languages I personally understand and speak well.

\ Okay... Is Ilongo that the same as Hiligaynon? I couldn't get Google to translate to either one.
I don't speak Tagalog perfectly because it was not the primary language of the region where I grew up; that language was Hiligaynon.
I don't speak Hiligayon perfectly because that was not the language of instruction in schools; that language was English.
I understand and speak a little Spanish.
  I had two years of Spanish education.

\ We originally thought that people would translate the whole CAL into other languages, with no English remaining.
\ I still think this is the best way.
\ The SAL, on the other hand, is an experimental Spanish/English hybrid.
\ We might be able to add a third language to the hybrid program, but it would make the program larger and slower.
I don't mean that we add another language to the SAL. SAL is the Spanish/English hybrid and it will remain so, as far as I am concerned.

\ So far, I think, we're good.
\ Here's a link to a brief statement of our original goals and my remarks regarding a offshoot that wasn't so good:
\ https://github.com/Folds/osmosian/issues/4
I agree that the interface of what that guy made is hideous. 
To be honest, I've thought of some of those "improvements", too, (like having indicators for the menu letters that have functions) but there has to be a better way.

\ I did almost all the coding (and some of the translating, using Google).
\ Pablo translated the menu commands, the error messages, the types, the constants, and some of the routine headers.
\ He also corrected my translation of the sample program, and translated the instruction manual.
The way you were doing it with Pablo, I propose we do this translation with me and my son. Additionally:
  Instead of doing the translation from the original CAL, we translate the Spanish parts of SAL to Italian (assuming that that's the language we decide to do).
  We keep the English parts; people can use English as well as Italian. 
  I will ask my son (who speaks Italian and Spanish) to help by improving our googled translations.  

\ I'm not sure what you mean by "your browser".
\ You're not using a "browser" to read this right now.
No? The sample program from the osmosian.com website is able to access the web and show a picture from it. That shows that programs produced from CAL has some functions of a browser.
 I think CAL can do any programs we want it to make.

\ Sure; ALT-TAB to a browser like Google Chrome when you want to see the World at large.
\ Then ALT-TAB back here where everything is beautiful.
What I meant by connectivity with the world is mainly that it can access the web (which it can; see above).
Also, that it can produce documents that is (any) web browser friendly.
Also, that it can run web apps on the backend with a version of CAL itself doing most if not all the "serving" ala ... 

CGI ...
\ It's an "undocumented" feature, and we only used it for one application, 'way back in 2006.
\ Most providers don't like non-standard code running on their servers.
\ It's like the problems we have with anti-virus programs, only worse.
I think this is worth pursuing. It can be executable files, and as long as we get it to run from the server it can be made from any language, even Plain English.

Python, PHP, Perl...
\ Sorry, no. But those are not really "real" languages:
\ (a) they are not written in themselves;
\ (b) they don't produce stand-alone executables; and
\ (c) they don't provide unfettered access to the Windows file system.
You may not consider them as "real" languages, but ... 
\ And those are not the kind of programs people want (or want to develop) these days.
Programmers like to do web apps. 
Computers are so fast nowadays and internet speeds had been increasing that web apps mimic the speed of native apps.

\ The problem, it seems, is that the CAL is a stand-alone, Windows-only executable,
\ designed to produce similar stand-alone, Windows-only executables.
If we make a web app version of CAL, or a CAL-produced executables, that run on the server and power a web app:
 The need for CAL to be ported to another operating system can be postponed.
 Antivirus problems will be gone, too (people can run CAL-powered web apps from their web browser).

\ The trick is to reduce the scope to something chewable.
To know where to chew first:
  Find out which task is easiest.
If each task is equally hard;
  If each task is equally easy:
  Take pick randomly.

So, are you agreeing that we proceed with the translation of SAL(Spanish - English) to Italian-English? Call it CALI? 
Or, do you think I should stick with Tagalog(Filipino) which is more of my native tongue? Or even Hiligaynon(Ilongo)?
Has there been an attempt to make a web app CAL?
  Which task is more urgent (in pursuit of developing CAL and promoting it), to have it translated to another language, or;
  Get a type of CAL or executableto run on a web server?

- Lope