Hello Gerry!

I transcribed your previous message with the quotation marks. My answers come right below every sentence:

"I understand. My elder son Dan, who wrote the CAL with me, also programs in ugly languages (CSS, HTML, JavaScript, etc) to make a living and has similar emergencies in his work."

In fact, it is a very stressful profession and dealing with such emergencies is not easy. I also use the languages you cited for frontend programming.
For the backend I used to use Java, but I'm slowly migrating to Python just because it's much faster development.
I also have some old systems written in COBOL and VB6 that work to this day and the headache is even bigger to do maintenance.
 
"I was pleasantly surprised myself at how little we had to add and change to make the SAL bi-lingual."

Yes, I am comparing SAL source codes with their corresponding CAL-3040 to analyze the differences. It's really amazing.

"I think you're probably right about that. Articles are more critical than prepositions. Articles are the "keywords" that
 indicate the start of a variable; prepositions (except in possessive's -- "the top-left of the box") are merely "name enders" 
(that is, they tell the compiler that a name -- which may contain spaces -- has ended). 
Note that we treat a few words (like "left" and "right") as prepositions even though they are not strictly prepositions because, 
for example, "move left", in English, is shorthand for "move to the left"."

Yes, I could observe this difference in compiler behavior. I am also studying the routine that deals with possessive types:
"the top-left of the box" and I think it will not be difficult to adapt it to Portuguese. There is a difference because, in Portuguese,
the conjunctions are used: "do" = "de" (proposition) + "o" (male definite article) and "da" = "de" + "a" to denote possessives depending on the gender of the possessor noun.

"That's a good idea. We did a similar thing when we were adding the prepositional phrase alternative to
apostrophized possessives: we temporarily added a special preposition ("uv", which sounds like "of") to get the first version working, in pseudo-English,
without conflicting with the normal uses of "of" in the existing code."

Thank you for your opinion, I will then proceed with the idea.

"It sounds plausible. I wish you well. Don't hesitate to write with any questions that arise.
 
Pablo and I used the Cal Monet sample program (described on pages 14-54 of the Plain English Programming manual)
as our initial test program, since it exercises all the major features of the system in a step-by-step order.
Once that was working, we converted the SAL's interface (menu commands, status and error messages, etc) to Spanish,
and then we worked on getting the SAL to compile itself.
 
By the way, there is a document with a summary of the SAL/CAL shortcut keys in the SAL's "documentación" directory. "

This is an excellent tip. I will use the same method for developing PAL.

"Okay, but keep in mind that I cannot read, write or speak Portuguese."

Yes, the intent is just to make the language available in the Plain English collection.

"Thank you. We sometimes use that directory to pass text files, documents, and programs created with the CAL to one another.
We call it "O'mail" -- Osmosian Mail. It is email with all the complications (TCP/IP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, etc) of regular email.
I've added a "mailbox" for you, with a test message in it."

Thanks for the access, And I'm already using the functionality.

Big hug and best regards.
