\ Jasper

CAL-4018 also accommodates the task bar better;
I find that this encourages me to use it in full screen mode
instead of half-screen mode.

\ I'm curious regarding what people find so onerous about a full-screen CAL.
\ I keep four programs active at all times...

\ 1. Google's Chrome browser,
\ 2. Paint Shop Pro,
\ 3. Outlook Express Classic (email clone), and
\ 4. The CAL-4700

\ ...I use ALT-TAB to switch between them. The taskbar is hidden all the time.
\ I never find this setup inconvenient.

\ --Gerry

You might have a much better short-term memory than most people.
You also learned to use computers before most programs
had extensive copy-and-paste and drag-and-drop functionality.
You also use various CAL-4700 tabs as notepads,
so you are used to moving text between screens
that are not visible simultaneously.

You also remember that ALT-TAB exists.  I suspect that
many people don't remember any keyboard shortcuts.

When I am working on CAL, I tend to have the following
programs open:

1. The CAL-40xx that I am using as an IDE,
   in either left half-screen mode or (sometimes) full-screen mode.
2. If I have just compiled, the child CAL-40xx,
   in right half-screen mode.
3. Google's Chrome browser, either in full-screen mode,
   or in the space that the child CAL-40xx would use.
4. GitKraken.  It likes the right three-quarters of the screen,
   so it either has to be in front, or in the rear.
5. The taskbar, including the system tray/clock.
6. Two or more instances of Windows Explorer.
   For example, one open to a folder with current
   CAL-40xx code, and one open to a corresponding
   folder with CAL-40xx code to check into / checked into
   GitKraken.  Most of the time, these are hidden behind
   CAL-40xx's left half-screen.
I also often have notepad(s), a character map,
and/or a cmd32 command shell open.

Usually, I am either working in one window at a time,
or I am working in two windows.

When I am working in one window (such as CAL-40xx
or a web browser), it is most pleasant to have
just that window open, plus the taskbar.
This reduces distractions.
The taskbar reminds me of what other programs I might
want to use, and lets me easily switch to one of them.

I have two common scenarios for working in two windows
(not counting the taskbar):

 * Copying data from one to the other.
   This often involves comparing their contents.
   For example, sorting the files in corresponding folders
   by date, and only copying files that are newer
   from one folder to the other.
   Being able to see both windows at the same time
   makes it easier to compare them.

 * Copying data from one to the other, processing it,
   and going back to the first one.  Because the first one
   never got hidden, I don't have to spend much time
   finding my place in it again.

I don't like using ALT-TAB.  Most people don't.
It has several problems; the biggest is that the order
of the programs in ALT-TAB changes.  It works very well
if you only have two programs open, or if you are only
switching between two programs.  The more programs you
need to switch between, the less well it works.

The taskbar is basically a replacement for ALT-TAB,
which also lets people start programs.  To me, the system
tray's most useful features are the clock and the date;
other people like the battery status, network connection
status, and speaker control.

I am a bit relieved that you keep the taskbar hidden
all the time.  CAL-4017 and its predecessors'
full-screen mode always covers the taskbar.
CAL-4018's full-screen mode leaves room for the taskbar.
Since your taskbar is hidden all the time,
CAL-4018's full-screen mode will cover your entire screen,
just like its predecessors' did.

-- Jasper
