i've been playing around with CAL in windows (obviously), and looking at the ELF header documentation. there are highs, there are lows; progress is slow, epiphanies are elusive. (i used to be more poetic.)

i think i'm going to keep studying the linux/mac possibilities, but focus on getting to know CAL. i have successfully written the interface for a simple calculator program (just the buttons on the screen), but i haven't wired up the actual calculus, yet. it was a lot of fun. you've really got something here!

the more i think about what you said about linux, the more i'm convinced that a mac will have the default libraries and environment installed for every build. i don't know of a single headless mac (even the tower/trash can and the mac mini have desktop environments).

i have a mac to play with, so i should be able to get that going. i'm just not as familiar with the Mach-O object format. the eventual goal is to have support for the full CAL in mac and linux, but i recognize i have set my sights on a great white whale.

do you work on CAL full time? do you have a different day job? have you retired? i'm hoping to retire at age 58 and spend all my time working on open-source projects (like CAL, for instance), when my retirement accounts are sufficiently padded. i don't mean to pry, so don't hesitate to tell me to buzz off if i overstep!

anyway, i'll keep plugging away, but i probably won't keep writing you long missives every day. relationships with me can become tiresome for most people. i'm self-aware enough to know that much.

do CAL aficionados get together ever? are there any conferences you frequent? i have a lifelong-learning budget at my job, but i never go to any conferences. i've found most to be a waste of time. i perhaps haven't found the right ones, yet.

i think my wife is getting tired of hearing about Plain English from me. she's expecting my attention span to shift, i'm sure. much like it did with java, go, groovy, kotlin, lisp, etc. in fairness, i really like the simplicity and power of lisp, but i couldn't ever get anyone else on board. it can be cumbersome to carry the enthusiasm all by myself.

do you have a git repo where you put Plain English programs you've written? if not, would you mind if i upload mine to my github account? i'd like to get your notes on the little calculator when i get it finished. perhaps you'll spot inefficiencies that will help me get better.

in a roundabout way, i'm basically saying that you were right that i should just spend more time with CAL before trying to port it. at least it's a fun project!

peace,
mo

ps. i'm fully aware that i'm coming across like a fanboy. i have no counter-argument.