\ Hello again, Walter!

Yes, maybe "Português padrão" is more appropriate.

\ I like it. It has a nice alliterative ring to it.

The words "normal" and "ordinário" in Portuguese also refer to the meaning of being mediocre,
so I do not think they are convenient.

\ I understand.

I intend to develop the initial version of the PAL exactly in accordance with the original conceptions of the CAL. As well as being a matter of respect for you and your generosity,
I think it's great that Plain English's environment can be the alpha and omega of your goals in their own terms, that is, without using external elements.

\ This is the proof that Plain English and Português padrão are REAL programming languages, and not mere toys.

This version of the compiler using the command line was developed just to perform the conversion to PAL.

\ I understand. You do what you've got to do.

The defined version will work as originally designed.

\ Excellent!

Note that I had to change the "a" and "as" of English so as not to conflict with their homonyms in Portuguese of different grammatical classes,
so that the two languages can be interpreted at the same time by the compiler during the conversion operation.
I decided to change the "a" for "a_" and "as" for "as_" to be clearly evident in the codes and made this change in the compiler and Noodles meticulously,
since Spanish is also being interpreted for the time being and the word "a" followed by an indefinite article means a preposition in this case.
So I just created this version of the compiler so I do not have to make changes to other system programs (finder, destop, etc) to compilae in PAL,
because I do not consider that changing such programs is practical at this stage, since in the end they will be converted entirely into Portuguese.
I have been using cal-monet to do the tests for each new version of the compiler as you recommended.

\ I understand.

Initially I made this temporary version of the compiler with the functionality of getting the directory to be compiled by the console.
But at each compile I had to re-enter the directory because the console does not have the functionality to get the windows clipboard in Ctrl-V.
I was not patiently typing repeatedly and found it quicker to create a routine to get the directory from command line than to implement such functionality on the console.
I found that such a routine would be useful not because the final PAL compiler will stick like this,
but rather because a developer using the platform may want to make any application that gets their arguments through the command line, who could know?
But after performing the conversion to the PAL I will remove the routine from the system, since it does not conform to the original design.

\ It sounds like you're making excellent progress. Please keep me updated, and let me know if you have any questions.

\ Grande abraço.

\ Gerry
