Hello Gerry.

I'm in black, you're in blue, as usual.

\ Pablo and I found Google Translate to be helpful, but hardly sufficient

A google translated version of CAL is still way better than what programmers are doing right now, programming using an alien language (e.g., pick any programming language).

\ Do you think people in your home town would like to learn about programming in Ilongo?
\ Seems to me that would be a well-defined market to target with a product NOBODY else is offering.
\ And the Ilongo/English combination might even be attractive to schools there.

Yes, that's a good prospect. I heard that over there they are teaching using Ilongo in the early grades; call it national pride.

\ In an emergency, for example, do you find yourself saying, "Don't touch that! It's hot!" Or something else?
"Mama Mia!" :)

\ In short, the more YOU do (and the less I do, except for teaching and advising) the better.
\ How much do you know about compilers?

Not much, but I'm reading up on it. How much knowledge about compilers do I need to do a CAL translation? I don't think it's that much, but I could be wrong.
The CAL-4XXX has been compiled already, originally. Were you using C++ in your original iteration of CAL-0001? Or was he made of assembly code?
After that, it became a compiler itself so it didn't need an external compiler like Visual Studio or such. Such an awesome feat.
Now, if I want to improve on CAL for the functions that I think it should have, maybe I need to study more about compilers.

\ I agree, it's better to start with the SAL. The SAL has language features the CAL doesn't.
Good.

\ Does your son know enough Italian to know how native Italian speakers actually say things?
Yes.

\ Not exactly. The CAL is able to download a web page as TEXT, and that's all.
\ The CAL does not know how to interpret CSS or HTML or JavaScript, etc.
It won't have to.

\ Any stand-alone Windows application, yes. [It can make programs.] You could even write a full-featured web browser in Plain English...
\ ...but it would be a VERY big job since you would have to write interpreters for CSS and HTML and JavaScript, etc, etc, etc.
CL will not be another browser. We got enough of those.
CAL will get additional features via another function file like "Noodle". 
This will not be defining what CAL is, just an adjunct to its already awesome capabilities.

\ Yes, the CAL can ACCESS the web, but it doesn't know how to INTERPRET what it finds there.
It can be taught, no?

\ The only web-browser-friendly documents the CAL produces are PDFs.
Once it has these capabilities, it can produce proper web documents (just another type of text document). 
We don't have to see the brackets and stuff the document is made of (just like we don't look at the bytes that the executable produced from CAL).
This Web-enhanced CAL can produce things that look pretty, too.

\ The CAL was designed as a stand-alone Windows application for producing similar stand-alone Windows applications.
CAL will still be that. Okay, if you don't want to go this route, that's fine. This can be a future project of mine or someone else.
I just thought that this could be a great killer app, like Excel was -- or, in the very beginning, B.A.S.I.C.-- for Microsoft.

\ If Python is a real language, why isn't Python written in Python? [etc.]
A python interpreter has been written using python. Python just wasn't designed to be used primarily as a compiler as CAL is. 
Like most other languages, Python's pretty much Turing complete.

\ Yes, they do. Unfortunately, that [web app producing] is not what the CAL is and does.
\ The CAL is a stand-alone Windows application for producing similar stand-alone Windows applications.
I'm glad it starts that way. It can grow in its scope though. Before CAL just knew English. Now, it's Spanish and, soon, other languages. 
Why can't CAL interpret and write other programming languages too?
Right now, web servers understand only those other languages so this is the only route to go for connectivity.
(Just a note, Python and PHP and JS all took the route of becoming their own web servers.)

\ The speed, perhaps. But not the simplicity.
Perhaps you and I come from different backgrounds in programming. For me, there is nothing more complex than assembly code.
You seem to be saying that text files having "<" or ">" symbols in them are complicated. 

\ The CAL takes in English and puts out just three kinds of things:
\ (a) binary data;
\ (b) calls to Windows DLLs; and
\ (c) native Intel x86 instructions
\ in a form consistent with the Windows Portable Executable format.
It will still be that.

\ What do you picture this "WebCAL" putting out?
Text files. 
Ultimately these web pages will still get read in English (or Spanish, etc).

\ 82% of desktop computers run Windows. And the CAL looks and feels the same on all of them.
That's great but if you count worldwide computer (including smart phone) usage, the use of connected/portable devices beat the rest by an increasing margin.

\ The CAL will always have to be ported to other operating systems, because...
\ ...a CAL that isn't written entirely with itself isn't a CAL;
\ ...a CAL that doesn't produce native executables for a particular hardware/OS system isn't a CAL; and
\ ...a CAL that doesn't provide unfettered access to a machine's screen and file system isn't a CAL.
\ Probably so [virus secure when accessed from web]. But only because the CAL wouldn't be the CAL anymore.
The current Windows iteration is very unlike the old unconnected Windows 3.0, or DOS. 
Windows 10 is its predecessor's natural reincarnation and you can still see snippets of the original.
Just bring up a command prompt and you're back in DOS 6.22.

\ What does a "CAL-powered web app" take in and put out?
It can access the WEB, like it does now, and it will know what to do with it.

\ Is that a nested IF?
Is it? If [a condition] or [other condition] is nested for you, I'll try to see how I can avoid that.

\ My rule is do the hardest task first, so you don't get stuck later.
For me the hardest is knowing how a compiler does its job.

\ How old is your son?
18.

\ I also tried running the CAL on a server that provided access via any Browser.
This service you mentioned merely ran CAL off a remote computer. It's sluggish.
This is not what I mean by getting CAL more connected. 
Just extend CAL's capabilities on the Web more.
 We'll work on this after the [human language] translation(s).

\ But it's your call. I'm happy to teach you whatever you need to know about the CAL.
I'd like to do something you would be happy with so let's translate to some (Italian or Tagalog or Hiligaynon or all three) languages, and then we'll also do the other things.

- Lope


