\ Jasper,

I wrote a "splash a color" turtle demo to figure out
some issues with measuring the differences between colors,
and with picking "a color near a color".

\ Cool. Here's what happened when I tried to run it:

\ Using the CAL-4700, I made a new directory with a file for the program you sent
\ plus your 4018 NOODLE and TURTLE libraries.

I am glad you tried it out, and eventually got it to work.
That must have been painful.  I will work on improving
CAL-40xx's support for writing stand-alone programs.

For users of the CAL-40xx compilers, the libraries are better
organized.  The programmer can choose which folder(s)
to include in their application.  There is a noodle folder
that contains all of the files in the noodle library;
there is a turtle folder that contains all of the files
in the console / turtle library; and there is a desktop folder
that contains all of the files in the compiler / all-in-one
application. The programmer can slap in the noodle folder and
0 - 2 of the other folders.  The programmer has some choice
about where to put their own source code file(s).
Unfortunately, the compiler and the test suite are
still integrated into the all-in-one application.
I will work on making them available to (and/or as?)
stand-alone applications. 

Because CAL-4700 requires all of the source code to be
in a single directory, I threw all of the files together.
Unfortunately, I did not rename them in any way to indicate
which ones belong together.  Even worse, you had to
pick-and-choose files.  Just using all of them would have
compiled the CAL-4018, not the turtle demo.

I'm sorry that I did not think through the consequences
of this difference between the CAL-40xx and the CAL-4700.

At some point, I will do another round of mapping out the
dependencies, and figure out ways to make them closer to a tree,
with "noodle/the noodle" at the bottom.

\ I think I could reasonably argue that EVERY program needs COLORS (if only black and white)
\ and that any type that the Compiler knows about (ie, understands literals of that type, or assumes
\ that type is defined for some other reason) ought to be part of the basic Noodle
\ (like BYTE POINTERS, RATIOS and, in your case, BIGINTS and maybe MIXIOs).

\ -- Gerry

I'll keep that thought in mind when I refactor.

-- Jasper
