To handle jigsaw puzzle given a node:
If the node is root-level, cluck; exit.
Put the node's first selected nodette into a nodette.
If the nodette is nil, show error "I'm not sure what you want me to make a puzzle from."; exit.
If the nodette's kind is "directory", show error "Please select a file, not a directory."; exit.
Show the desktop with "Working...".
Read the nodette's path into a buffer.
If the i/o error is not blank, exit.
Show the desktop with "Press ESC when you're done.".
Create a puzzle from the buffer.
Display the puzzle.
Show the arrow cursor.
Loop.
    Deque an event.
    If the event is nil, break.
    If the event's kind is "key down", break.
    If the event's kind is not "left click", repeat.
    Track the mouse on the puzzle.
Repeat.
Destroy the puzzle.
Show the desktop with "Did you have fun?".
Flush the event queue.

The piece size is a size equal to 2 inches.

A piece is a thing with a box and a picture.

A puzzle is a thing with a box, a picture and some pieces.

To create a puzzle from a buffer:
Allocate memory for the puzzle.
Make the puzzle's box 6 inches by 6 inches.
Center the puzzle's box in the screen's box.
Create the puzzle's picture from the buffer.
Resize the puzzle's picture to 6 inches by 6 inches.
Center the puzzle's picture in the puzzle's box.
Cut the puzzle into pieces.
Splatter the puzzle's pieces.

To cut a puzzle into pieces:
Draw the puzzle's picture.
Put the puzzle's left-top into a spot.
Loop.
    Allocate memory for a piece. Append the piece to the puzzle's pieces.
    Put the spot and the spot plus the piece size into the piece's box.
    Extract the piece's picture using the piece's box.
    Add the piece size to the spot's left.
    If the spot's left is less than the puzzle's right, repeat.
    Put the puzzle's left into the spot's left.
    Add the piece size to the spot's top.
    If the spot's top is the puzzle's bottom, break.
Repeat.

To splatter some pieces:
Make a box 1 inch smaller than the screen's box.
Loop.
    Get a piece from the pieces.
    If the piece is nil, break.
    Pick a spot anywhere in the box. Round the spot to the nearest multiple of 1/4 inch.
    Center the piece's box on the spot.
    Center the piece's picture on the spot.
Repeat.

To display a puzzle:
Clear the screen without refreshing.
Loop.
    Get a piece from the puzzle's pieces.
    If the piece is nil, break.
    Draw the piece's picture.
Repeat.
Refresh the screen.

To track the mouse on a puzzle:
Find a piece of the puzzle given the mouse's spot.
If the piece is nil, exit.
Loop.
    If the mouse's left button is up, exit.
    Put the mouse's spot into a spot.
    Round the spot to the nearest multiple of 1/4 inch.
    Center the piece's box on the spot.
    Center the piece's picture on the spot.
    Display the puzzle.
Repeat.

To find a piece of a puzzle given a spot:
Get the piece from the puzzle's pieces (backwards).
If the piece is nil, exit.
If the spot is not in the piece's box, repeat.

To clear the screen without refreshing:
Draw the screen's box with the desktop color and the desktop color.

