A block is a thing with a box and a brightness.
A list is some blocks.
 
To run:
Start up.
Clear the screen.
Use large letters. Use the fat pen. Write "Just a moment..." in the middle of the screen.
Fetch a picture from "C:\ASCII art\dawkins.jpg".
Create a list of brightness blocks from the picture.
Clear the screen.
Put "courier new bold" and 1/4 inch into a font.
Draw the list of brightness blocks using "INTHEBEGINNINGGODCREATEDTHEHEAVENSANDTHEEARTH" and the font.
Wait for the escape key.
Destroy the picture.
Destroy the list.
Shut down.
 
To draw a list of brightness blocks given a string and a font:
Get a letter from the string (wrapping at the end).
Get a block from the list.
If the block is nil, break.
Put 0 and 0 and the block's brightness into a color.
Draw the letter in the center of the block's box with the color and the font.
Repeat.
Refresh the screen.
 
The byte pointer is a byte pointer.
 
To get a letter from a string (wrapping at the end):
If the byte pointer is not nil, add 1 to the byte pointer.
If the byte pointer is greater than the string's last, put the string's first into the byte pointer.
If the byte pointer is nil, put the string's first into the byte pointer.
Put the byte pointer's target into the letter.
 
To draw a letter in the center of a box with a color and a font:
Put the letter into a string.
Draw the string in the box with the color and the font and "center".
 
To create a list of brightness blocks from a picture:
Center the picture on the screen.
Draw the picture.
Put the picture's left-top into a spot.
Loop.
Allocate memory for a block. Append the block to the list.
Put the spot and the spot plus 12 pixels into the block's box.
Put the block's average brightness into the block's brightness.
Add 12 pixels to the spot's left. If the spot's left is less than the picture's right, repeat.
Put the picture's left into the spot's left.
Add 12 pixels to the spot's top. If the spot's top is less than the picture's bottom, repeat.
 
To put a block's average brightness into a brightness:
Put the block's left-top into a spot.
Loop.
Get a color given the spot.
Add the color's brightness to a total brightness. Add 1 to a count.
Add 1 pixel to the spot's left. If the spot is in the block's box, repeat.
Put the block's left into the spot's left.
Add 1 pixel to the spot's top. If the spot is in the block's box, repeat.
Put the total divided by the count into the brightness.
 
To fetch a picture from a path:
Read the path into the picture.
Resize the picture to 8 inches by 8 inches.
 
To clear the screen to tan:
Draw the screen's box with the tan color and the tan color.
Refresh the screen.
 
To center a picture on the screen:
Center the picture in the screen's box.