Dear Gerry,

\All that you say  I agree.
\I do realize that your method is a path of least resistance for the parser discarding what is not adding information,
\giving tolerance to the parsing that usual compilers did not have, and extracting useful executable meaning from less formal texts.
\That tolerance gives the machine the ability people already have to process orders from others besides noise, errors and misunderstandings.

We really were inspired by that Gary Larson comic, and by the way infant Chuckles could understand us (without understanding English grammar).
I need to do some more research, but I suspect that the way humans actually process language is something like this:

1. On the left side of our brains we have built-in "bins" for WHO, WHAT, WHEN, WHERE, WHY AND HOW.
2. As people say things to us, we grab the words that are between the articles, prepositions, and simple verbs and put them in the appropriate bin.
3. When we have enough bins filled, we respond (or ask a question to fill a missing bin).

For example:

Gerry: "Our cat had kittens."
Pable hears: "blah CAT blah KITTENS"
Pablo's bins: WHO (cat) WHAT (kittens) WHEN () WHERE () WHY () HOW ()
Pablo asks, "When? Where? Why? How many?" (note that HOW includes "how many" and "in what manner" and "in what way", etc)
Gerry responds: "Three weeks ago, in the kitchen, she's a slut, four."
Pablo's bins: WHO (cat) WHAT (kittens) WHEN (~ 1 April) WHERE (kitchen) WHY (loose morals) HOW MANY (4)

The rest of language, I believe, is decoration.

By the way, I once invented a database normalization process based on the fact that any English declarative sentence can be reduced to the form:

NOUN verb NOUN [preposition NOUN] ...

For example:

CUSTOMER buys PART in QUANTITY on DATE for PRICE

which translates nicely to a relational table:

                      buys    in                   on                     for
CUSTOMER   PART  QUANTITY   DATE                 PRICE
--------- ----   --------    ----------    -----
1                    abc                   10    22/04/2018       $100
2                    abc                 100    22/04/2018         $50         

The method generated too much redundancy for operational systems, but worked well for systems with a lot of historical data,
like "data warehouses."

\Yes, I have not the time to check all the modifications that you are doing to the SAL progressively, thus I'll pay attention to what you're pointing me at.

No problem. I'm just hoping you get progressively familiar with the SAL, as I get progressively familiar with Español.
We call it the "Osmosian Order" because we believe that people learn best by "osmosis" -
simply absorbing the things in which they are immersed, little by little.

\It is so clever this use of simple actions; I've never found such an application on natural language processing so simple as this.

Osmosian Motto (one of many): "If it's hard, it's wrong."
Believe that with all your heart and you will find yourself discovering very simple solutions to (apparently) difficult problems.

\And so generalizable to many natural language grammars not treated yet.
\I envision a description of the method for general parsing of languages.

Yes! When we get the SAL fully operational, you should write a paper about it (and how we did it) so you can become
rich and famous (or, more likely, infamous!) in the academic world. It really amazes even me how easy it has been to
make the SAL "understand" Spanish and English - at the same time!

Tu compañero Quijote, Gerry.


