Dear Pablo,

I am glad to hear you and your family are well.

Did you get my message sent 14-03-2018 labeled "attention attention attention attention attention attention attention"?

I am afraid you have been working on an obsolete version of the instrucciones.

The instruccciones that are consistent with the SAL-1015 are the ones in the documentación directory
in the SAL-1015 directory. Those instructions include minor changes like this on page 4...

"Mi código - sólo 25,000 líneas de Español Llano e Inglés Sencillo - tiene un alcance sorprendentemente amplio."

...since there is still a lot of English in the program. Those instructions also include changes to the Glossary
to match the SAL-1015's "El Seso" file.

I do not think I changed much in the Sal Monet section, so your revised pages 14-54 are probably good.
And any errors in that section will show up when you have a Spanish-speaking programmer attempt to recreate the Sal Monet.
But you will save yourself a lot of time if you start with the Glossary pages (55-120) from the SAL-1015 documentación directory.
Those pages are consistent with the 927 Spanish headers I put in the SAL-1015's "El Seso" file.
You know you can easiily copy and paste groups of pages from one document to another, yes?

I see that you have an orange square on page 50, but I don't know what that means.

I also see you have a note on page 46 that reads:

"la subcadena primero -> debería ser la subcadena primera"

Fixing that requires changes to:

(a) El Compilador (for types defined as "cosas");
(b) El Seso (for cadenas, subcadenas, and escáneres);
(c) El Sal Monet;
(d) Many places in the Instrucciones.

Here is how to make those changes:

1. Start up the SAL-1015.

2. Make sure the instrucciones in the SAL-1015 documentación directory are the most recent version
    that you want carried forward.

3. Duplicate the SAL-1015 directory; call the duplicated directory SAL-1016.

4. Open the SAL-1016 directory.

5. Select and delete the SAL-1015.exe file.

6. Select El Compilador and El Seso in the SAL-1016 directory, and press ENTER.

7. Find "primero" in El Compilador, which will take you to the spot where El Compilador
    adds adds "primero" and "primera" fields to any record type defined as una cosa:

Add a third spanish field to the chain type's fields given "primero " then the type's name and "primero" and the type's name and the on flag.
Put "first " then the type's name into the third spanish field's redefinition target name.
Add a third feminine spanish field to the chain type's fields given "primea " then the type's name and "primea" and the type's name and the on flag.

As you can see, I misspelled "primera". Sorry.

8. Change "primea" -> "primera" in two places in the last line above (I misspelled it; sorry).
Note that the first instance is followed by one space, but the second is not.

9. Now switch tabs and find "primero" in El Seso, which will take you here:

A rider has \ fix "bump a rider" and "unbump a rider" if you change me
an original substring, una subcadena primero at the original substring,
a source substring, una subcadena fuente at the source substring and
a token substring, una subcadena componente at the token substring.

10. Change this record to look like this:

A rider has \ fix "bump a rider" and "unbump a rider" if you change me
an original substring, una subcadena primera at the original substring, \ primero -> primera
a source substring, una subcadena fuente at the source substring and
a token substring, una subcadena componente at the token substring.

11. Then find "primero" again (CTRL-N or CTRL-S), which will take you here:

A string has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer
and un primero puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and
un último puntero octeto at the last byte pointer.

12. Change the above record to looke like this:

A string has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer
and un primero puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and
and un primera puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and \ new line, same as above except primero -> primera
un último puntero octeto at the last byte pointer and
un última puntero octeto at the last byte pointer. \ new line, same from above except último -> última

13. Run the program (CTRL-R or CTRL-E). This will save all your changes.

14. Use the Versión command to make sure you are in the SAL-1016.




That field is defined in El Seso like this:

A string has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer
and un primero puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and
un último puntero octeto at the last byte pointer.

You can change that to read...

A string has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer
and un primera puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and \ primero -> primera
un último puntero octeto at the last byte pointer.

...if you want the feminine form all the time, or you can change that to read:

A string has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer
and un primero puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and
and un primera puntero octeto at the first byte pointer and \ new line
un último puntero octeto at the last byte pointer.

...if you want the programmer to be able to use either the masculine or the feminine form.







