Dear Gerry,

I've setup an arduino with COM12 only sending by now. I've also tried COM11 where I have a virtual serial port;
in both cases I'm getting an error trying to open the serial port.

Tell me please about your tests.

Tu compañero Quijote,
Pablo.
-------------------------------------------------------------
So good news!

I will try in these days I hope.
I'm thinking that an Arduino like board could be waiting instructions via RS-232.
At least by now I will try simple connections.
I will let you know my advances with it.

Tu compañero quijote.
Pablo

PS: We are really fine on our wedding anniversary with our blessing child!
------------------------------------------------------------

Hello again, Pablo!

I hope all is well with you and your family.

Dan finished the serial port stuff and I did my best to translate it into Spanish.
It's in the directory called "cosas del puerto serie" in three files:

1. "(6) el seso (con correcciones no relacionadas con las comunicaciones del puerto serie)"

While I was working on the serial port stuff I found some minor errors in el Seso and fixed them.
You should delete the "el seso" in your official SAL-1016 directory and replace it with this file.

2. "biblioteca de puerto serie"

This file contains the types and routines needed to access a USB serial port via Windows.
Lots of ugly stuff, as is usual with Windows, which we reduce to just one type and four routines:

Un puerto serie es a serial port.
Para abrir un puerto serie con una cadena de puerto COM y un número de velocidad:
Para transmitir un búfer a un puerto serie:
Para recibir desde un puerto serie en un búfer:
Para cerrar un puerto serie:

3. "programa de prueba"

This file contains the test code. It will compile but will not run unless you:

a. have a USB-to-serial adapter connected to your computer, and
b. you change the "COM5" string in the "abrir" sentence to match the port Windows assigns, and
c. you have something on the other end of the serial cable to send data back (otherwise, it will just wait).

You can use Window's "Device Manager" to find the number assigned to the "COM" port.

If this works for you, you should move everything from the "biblioteca de puerto serie" file to your "el seso" file.
And add a page to the Glossary describing how to use this new feature.
Then renumber the pages and update the Index to reflect the new page numbers (a nuisance, I know).

Let me know if I can help in any other way.

Your fellow Quixote,

Gerry

PS. I also found an error in "(1) el escritorio" that you will have to fix in your copy.
Just find "cancelarl" and change it to "cancelar". You should find only one.
Sorry about that.

