what you've written makes sense. i did follow through the introduction, typing it all in by hand,
until it worked. the copy-paste was pulling things from the desktop and the editor to make the
interface for the simple calculator program.

it'll take a while for us to have a common experience, since i'm fighting against all my muscle
memory right now. i can understand not wanting to change the experience to be more vim-centric. no
holy wars, no complicated modes and potentially unnatural key-sequence shortcuts. 

it's not that i think editing with a keyboard only is superior to using both mouse and keyboard; i
prefer keyboard only, because it's more consistent. i frequently move from desktop to laptop and
back again. trackpads are better than they were, but they're still not as friendly as a mouse. and
i don't always have a mouse. when i'm using a macbook, left-click-drag in a windows vm is fiddly
at best. also page-up/page-down/home/end on a macbook are fn-ctrl-^/fn-ctrl-v/fn-ctrl-</fn-ctrl->,
where the ^v<> are the arrow keys. it was a way to overcome some of the weaknesses in the design
of the hardware that i'm using. if you're dead-set against my implementing this stop-gap, then
i'll comply. i'm not very opinionated. i'll just have to work only on my desktop, because using the
laptop is pretty miserable.

you might be questioning my choice for hardware given that i don't like the design. that's fair.
it was my work laptop with my company that they sold to me for a pittance when it reached its third
year of age. 

i've spent a lot of time and energy moving away from the mouse. i'm not averse to picking it back
up again, but i'll probably knee-jerk push back. much like you probably felt when you read about
my wanting to vi(m)-ize CAL. 

\ If you really believe that's so, shouldn't the changes be made where the shortcomings are?

i get the impression you're not one to shy away from asking the hard questions. i pretty much
teed myself up for that, but that didn't make it easier to read. you're right about that analysis.
i'm in the midst of a practical conundrum: do i make the effort to learn to do things the CAL
way, at the cost of efficiency in my day job? or do i try to work in CAL the way i do other coding?
or do i try to maintain both worlds? i'll shoot for the first, but probably fall back to the third.
some days i'll probably do the second.

i'd also like to point out that i'm giving a lot more information than i probably need to, but i'm
trying to bring you on the meandering journey that is my thought process. also i tend to over-
analyze things to the point that everything turns gray and there is no spoon.

you're right in that i missed the point. or, rather, i quickly forgot it. i liked it when i read
it. i wanted it. but i forgot. i'm just used to adding features that i need (read: might want).

\ Surely you can see that jumping in the middle, making a mess, and then trying to question your way out
\ is not the most effective way to absorb something. Do you read novels in this haphazard way?

i occasionally skip around in novels. i'm somewhat monstrous that way. but it's not entirely my
fault: i read catch-22 a couple of times in high school, so sometimes if a story progresses too
linearly, i get bored. but that's rare.

i am still quite interested in the Osmosian Way. i will also try to write shorter messages. they
get a bit unwieldy to write; i can't imagine they are a pleasure to read.

peace,
mo