Hi, Gerry.

I'm in black, as usual, you're in blue.

\ You need to know how the CAL works, but that's all.
\ Most of the stuff in standard compiler books you don't need to know.
\ The CAL compiles the simple and direct way.

I'm sorry I was in blackout there for a while. I felt I needed to do more more research about executables. 
There's more to this than I can get in one or two or 20 sittings. 
I think that I'll learn more talking to you than on my own for the intended specific purpose of translating CAL.

\ Neither. The original CAL was written in a Pascal-like language that we wrote using Delphi Pascal.
\ It was basically Pascal without all the annoying semicolons.
\ The CAL-1000  did just enough so we could stop using Delphi. Since then, all the CALs have been created with former CALs.
Out of curiousity, at which nth iteration of these primitive CALs was it when you were able to stop using Delphi?

\ I'm still not sure you understand the difference between a web page and a program.
\ Google Chrome is a real program; on Windows it is a stand-alone Windows Portable Executable, like the CAL.
Please give me some credit that I know this. I think so that I know the differences. 
A web page is a text file but it has markups. The browser like Chrome is a binary file that ends in ".exe" file extension. 
A text file usually can be read easily with a text editor like Notepad. 
When a web page is read by Chrome, it hides the markups and renders it as intended.
When Notepad opens up a web page that's saved on the local computer (where Notepad.exe itself resides) then one can see the markups.

\ You and I are connected, right now, and we're not using those languages.
Just Plain English, right. However, I was thinking of all the people who are reading web pages. 
There are more people out there who will just be more content using the browser and we can connect to them.
They don't see the HTML, etc.; just the plain english language also that the web page puts out.
We can teach CAL to put out web pages but instruct him in plain english only.
 For example, let's say we want a bare web page. We might make an imperative statement like "Build a bare web page."
Anyway, this is for the future.

\ It would seem so [you and I come from different backgrounds in programming].
Which means we have some things to contribute to each other's knowledge.

\ It's not as difficult as you might think [assembly code].
\ Intel's instruction set is exceptionally large and ugly, but not all assembly code is like that.
Which assembly code are easy to understand? 
"MOV" and "JMP" and "JNZ" are mnemonically comprehensible, although still not plain english or even C.
When we go to machine language, that's really gibberish to me, although I could make out some text strings here and there.

\ No, just huge and ugly and unstable.
\ The latest HTML standard I could find has 1228 pages in it!
\ The EBNF definition of Plain English fits on less than 3 pages.
\ A entire list of the Intel x86 instructions we use fits on 1 page.
\ The Windows stuff we use is bulkier, but at least it doesn't change.
The Intelx86 instructions might be few but in a program file, they're repeated so many times the whole thing is unintelligible (for me).
Even if they were written in Plain English, they're still kind of unintelligible. 
The IRS tax code, which is also written in plain English --if I have to read it-- you might as well throw a tieza brick to my head.

\ Okay, Give me an example. Here's a trivial Plain English program:
\ To run:
\ Start up.
\ Clear the screen.
\ Say "Hello, World!" and wait.
\ Shut down.
[To Cal]
Make a bare webpage.
Put "Hello, World!" in the webpage's body.
[These functions will have to be defined. The text file produced will have HTML markup that won't be seen by the regular web user.]

\ The regular CAL takes that in and puts out a Windows executable that will run on any Windows/x86 machine.
\ Exactly what's in the text file the "WebCAL" puts out? What does one do with it?
Put the text file on a web server.

\ No doubt. But that's a different KIND of thing altogether. Those are CONSUMER devices, not PRODUCER devices.
\ The people designing the circuits for those devices, and writing the code that runs on those devices
\ are more likely than not sitting at desktop computers with real mice and real keyboards.
There's another category of computers and that is the server; in particular, web servers. They're run almost exclusively by Linux OS. 

\ When you say, "Know what to do with it" I think you mean, 
\ "will know how to interpret CSS, HTML, JavaScript and anything else that folks put in their web pages."
\ That's a BIG job.
\ Go to Google, right click, then select the "View page source" command.
\ Exactly what do you want the CAL to do with THAT?
Your sample.zip from osmosian.com seem able to access the web easily. I can't seem to compile it though. What version of CAL was it compiled on?

\ Last year I started to write a book about how the CAL works.
\ It's a draft, and unfinished, but I put it in your mailbox anyway.
\ I found, trying it out on various people, that after page 13 it was best to just
\ comment out the CAL's compiler and then wake it back up, one step at a time.
\ Unfortunately, those lessons (there are a lot of them) are in normal email, not o'mail.
\ It's not difficult stuff, but it is very tedious.
\ If, after reading the draft I just mentioned, you'd like to go through the whole thing with me, just let me know.
I do.

\ I'm still exactly not sure what that [extend CAL's capabilities on the Web more] means.
There are two ways of getting CAL more connected with the public WWW users. 
One is being able to deal with web pages (read and produce). This is easier and CAL already reads web pages.
The other is to put CAL itself (or something resembling it) on the web to be used like it's on your desktop app. 
This is harder but there are more improved technogies now. Can you point me to some links (you mentioned before about Javascript projects)?

\ Let me know what you think after you read that draft PDF I mentioned above.
This pdf manual is good even though I'm having a difficult time. I think it's just a matter of knowing which topics I need to concentrate on.

Whenever you can, go ahead and email me those exercises a bit at a time (or all of them).  

Lope


