A landscape is a thing with an horizon, a sun, and some birds.

An horizon is a polygon.
A sun is a polygon.
A bird is a polygon.

The drawings are some landscapes.

To draw a landscape:
If you're tired, say "I'd rather not, I'm tired"; exit.
Say "Okay".
Imagine the landscape.
Render the landscape.
Remember the landscape.

To imagine a landscape:
Allocate memory for the landscape.
Imagine an horizon in the landscape.
Imagine a sun in the landscape.
Imagine some birds in the landscape.

To imagine an horizon in a landscape:
Allocate memory for the landscape's horizon.
Put the screen's left-center into a spot.
Move the spot 1 inch up or down.
Add the spot to the landscape's horizon.
Loop.
Move the spot 1/2 inch to the right and 1/4 inch or so up or down.
Add the spot to the landscape's horizon.
If the spot is not on the screen, break.
Repeat.
Smooth the landscape's horizon 2 times.

To imagine a sun in a landscape:
Allocate memory for the landscape's sun.
Start with "A1 A9 I9 I1 A1" for the landscape's sun.
Smooth the landscape's sun 3 times.
Pick a spot anywhere above the landscape's horizon.
Scale the landscape's sun given the spot and the landscape's horizon.
Center the landscape's sun on the spot.

To scale a sun given a spot and an horizon:
Put 1 inch plus the spot's y into a ratio's numerator.
Put the horizon's top into the ratio's denominator.
Reduce the ratio.
Scale the sun to the ratio.

To imagine some birds in a landscape:
Pick a number between 1 and 3.
Say "I've decided to draw " then the number then " birds this time" and wait.
Loop.
If the number is 0, exit.
Imagine a bird in the landscape.
Add the bird to the landscape's birds.
Subtract 1 from the number.
Repeat.

To imagine a bird in a landscape:
Allocate memory for the bird.
Start with "E1 D3 G5 E7 G9" for the bird.
If you feel like it, flip the bird left to right.
Randomly scale the bird between 10 and 25 percent.
Smooth the bird.
Pick a spot for the bird in the landscape.
Center the bird on the spot.

To render a landscape:
If the landscape is nil, exit.
Fill the screen with the tan color.
Render the landscape's horizon with the black color.
Put masking tape below the landscape's horizon.
Render the landscape's sun with the black color.
Render the landscape's birds with the black color.
Take the masking tape off.