Colores en Español Llano
---------------------

Names for each of 13 basic hues::
\gray, red, orange, yellow, lime, green, teal, cyan, sky, blue, purple, magenta, violet
gris, rojo, naranja, amarillo, lima, verde, menta, cian, celeste, azul, púrpura, magenta, fucsia

Rule for
\lightest, lighter, light, [normal], dark, darker, darkest
clarísimo, claro, suave, [normal/puro], opaco, oscuro, oscurísimo

\3. Names for all the colors in our standard palette, page 63 of the manual. In the Noodle they look like this:

The lightest red color is a color.  \ color rojo clarísimo
The lighter red color is a color. \ color rojo claro
The light red color is a color. \ color rojo suave
The red color is a color. \ color rojo
The dark red color is a color. \ color rojo opaco
The darker red color is a color. \ color rojo oscuro
The darkest red color is a color. \ color rojo oscurísimo

tan - bronceado
beige - beige
brown - marrón
brownish - amarronado
black - negro
blackish - ennegrecido
white - blanco
whitish - blanqueado
clear - claro
pink - rosado
gold - oro
greenish - verdoso
hilite - resaltado
light color - color suave
The lighter sky color - El color celeste claro
The lighter sky blue color - El color azul celeste claro
lightness - claridad

The tan color is a color. Un color bronceado es un color.

A rainbow color is a color.  - Un color arcoiris es un color.
A really dark color is a color. - Un color realmente oscuro es un color.
A really light color is a color. - Un color realmente claro es un color.
A really really dark color is a color. - Un color realmente muy oscuro es un color.
A really really light color is a color. - Un color realmente muy claro es un color.
A very dark color is a color. - Un color muy oscuro es un color.
A very light color is a color. - Un color muy oscuro es un color.
A very very dark color is a color. - Un color muy muy oscuro es un color.
A very very light color is a color. - Un color muy muy claro es un color.

A solid color is a color. - Un color sólido/puro es un color.

