Hello again, amigo!

I'm making good progress translating the English Cal Monet into the Spanish Sal Monet, but I need some help.
Please translate the following:

\ internal stuff, rarely seen by the programmer:

An x-number is a number.
A y-number is a number.
A pair has an x-number and a y-number.

A distance is some twips.

\ I had to put dashes in 'x number" and "y number" (here) and in "x coord" and "y coord" (below) because "y",
\ by itself, in Spanish means "and".

\ cursors

The arrow cursor is a cursor.
The hand cursor is a cursor.
The i-beam cursor is a cursor.

To hide a cursor:
To show a cursor:

\ colors

To pick a color between another color and a third color:

\ spots

Is "foco" the right word for "spot"? A spot is like a mathematical point, only it has width and height.
A spot is about 1/15 of a pixel, but in practice usually refers to a particular pixel.
Google translates it as "lugar" which means "place" or "space".

An x-coord is a coord. \ "coord" is short for "coordinate" It's an ugly word either way.
A y-coord is a coord.
A spot is a pair with an x-coord and a y-coord and a left at the x-coord and a top at the y-coord.

To make a spot with an x-coord and a y-coord:
To pick a spot within a distance of another spot:

To draw a spot with a color:

\ boxes

A box has
A left coord, a top coord, a right coord, a bottom coord,
A left-top spot at the left, and a right-bottom spot at the right.

To make a box some twips by some other twips:

To draw a box with a border color and a fill color:
To pick a spot anywhere in a box:

\ ellipses

An ellipse has a box.

To draw an ellipse with a border color and a fill color:

\ strings, substrings, and riders

A byte pointer is a pointer to a byte.

A string has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer.

To put a string into another string:

A substring is a string.

A rider has
An original substring,
A source substring and 
A token substring.

\ miscellaneous

In English we consider "from/given/with/using" as interchangeable. What are the Spanish equivalents?

Is there a shorter word for "interrumpir"? Google suggests, "rompo".

Thanks,

Gerry
