Hello again, Pablo!

\ NOTE: I simplified this post to make it easier for you to translate. (15/04/2018)

I am behind schedule. Our internet service was broken all day yesterday.
I will try to get the status message translations and the corrections into the code tonight.

---

You probably noticed that the drive types that appear in the finder are still in English.
I need Spanish equivalents for these device names:

removable drive
hard disk / flash drive
network drive
cd-rom / dvd drive
virtual drive in memory

---

The last big batch of messages that need to be translated are in the Compiler. There are 146 of them,
but I've got it down to just these 108 phrases:

---

I don't know how to...
Invalid redefine. I can't find the [field name].
Optional 'with' info is only allowed on record types.
Scales are only allowed on number types.
Optional 'to' info is only allowed on pointer types.
I need a routine to...
You've defined an alternate wording here, but I'm not sure what you're rewording.
Employ statments should end with a period not...
Once an employ, only an employ.
I can't find the [routine name] routine you're trying to employ
I really prefer the phrase 'divided BY'.
Invalid 'divided by', I don't understand the variable [variable name].
Invalid 'minus', I don't understand the variable [variable name].
Invalid 'plus', I don't understand the variable [variable name].
Invalid 'times', I don't understand the variable [variable name].
Invalid 'then', I don't understand the variable [variable name]. \ "then" is the CAL's word for string concatenation; what should the Spanish word be? eg, "Hello " THEN "World" -> "Hello World"
I already know how to...
It's 'Decide IF.' We always say, 'Decide IF'. Got it?
It's a bad idea to use negatives in decider names.
I was expecting the word 'into', but found...
I was expecting an indefinite article, but found...
There's extra stuff on the end of this function.
...is an invalid unit of measure.
We seem to have an invalid unit of measure here
...is not valid in a routine header
Dude, you already have a parameter called...
I was expecting a statement here, but I found...
You seem to have forgotten a period around here.
Gee, I was expecting a quoted entry name, but I found...
I don't understand the variable [variable name].
I really need a pointer type in this CALL statement.
[variable name] can't be passed properly.
What does 'exit' mean here? Yes? No? Maybe?
I need a decider with the words...
Yeah, I'm going to need a decider here, ok?"
I expected a comma around here, but I found...
I'm thinking period, but you've got...
I need some machine code here, I found...
You seem to have forgotten a period around here.
Nested 'if' statements are a sure sign of unclear thinking. Think again.
The 'privatize' statement cannot be used here.
Looping inside an 'if' statement is a good way to lose your lunch.
'Employ' must be the first and only imperative in a routine.
You've got the wrong kind of variable here.
I was expecting the word 'to', but found...
I was expecting the word 'routine' but found...
I can't find the [routine name] routine to which you are trying to point.
Invalid 'privatize', I don't understand the variable...
You can only privatize parameters.
Values of type [type name] can't be pushed.
Invalid 'say', I don't understand the variable...
I need a definite 'yes' or 'no' here.
A simple 1, 2, or 4-byte variable is required in the 'returning' clause.
...is not valid in an employ statement.
We always say DECIDE IF, not DECIDE...
I was expecting an 's, but found...
I was expecting the word 'into', but found...
I was expecting an indefinite article, but found...
Invalid employ statement, I don't understand...
Invalid 'as', I don't understand the variable...
I was hoping for an indefinite article after AS, but I found...
I can't find the [type name] type.
I expected a term hereabouts but all I found was...
Invalid dereference, I don't understand the variable...
I'm unable to determine the type of this target.
Invalid negate, I don't understand the variable...
I don't know what you're trying to pull here...
...is already in use as a parameter.
...is already in use as a local variable.
Invalid posigate, I don't understand the variable... \ "posigate" is a made-up word for a plus sign in front of a variable, like +the number or +10 or +"hello" (which is invalid)
Invalid use of magnitude, I don't understand the variable...
Invalid use of target, I don't understand the variable...
You can only get the target of pointer types.
Invalid use of whereabouts, I don't understand the variable...
Invalid use of /, I don't understand the variable...
There's no [field name] field in a [record name].
Recursive reference in employ clause.
...is a duplicate global variable." and the global's locus; exit.
I think I've seen this [type name] type somewhere before; it must be a duplicate.
Could not load the file named...
...is not a valid field name.
Invalid global variable...
I need a literal here, but I found...
Is a period missing around here?
Invalid base type
Recursive definition with...
I can't quite see what you're pointing at. Please clarify.
The [field name] field is defined more than once." and the field's locus; exit.
Exactly what do you mean by '(reference)' here on this [field name]?
The 'to' here needs to be followed by an indefinite article, not...
I was expecting the word 'the', but found...
You have to specify a whole number of bytes for a byte array.
Nothing but the word 'bytes' is appropriate after a counted field designator.
I was expecting an indefinite article, but found...
Geez. I need an 'is' or an 'are' hereabouts, but all I found was...
All global definitions must end with a period. Including this one.
I need the word 'to' after the word 'equal', not...
Your punctuation is bad here.
I was kind of hoping for a name around here, but I found...
You may have forgotten a period somewhere above this. You better check.
This routine header is improperly formulated.
I think that there semi-colon is misplaced.
I was hoping for a definition but all I found was...
I was expecting an 'is' or 'are', but I found...
I was expecting an indefinte article, but I found...
Types need to end with a period, I found...
Zero is an invalid scale.
The type of this global and the type of its literal are not compatible.

---

No hurry. I realize this is a lot of work and that you are busy with three jobs and a new baby.
Here is some inspiration from an English-language musical version of the Don Quixote story:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RfHnzYEHAow

---

Sharon thanks you for the kiss. She asks you to kiss the baby for her.
She wants to know what city you live in so Chuckles can put a pin in the map as part of his home-school geography studies.

Una vez mas, muchas gracias,

Tu compañero Quijote





