Dear Papa Pablo,

Let me begin by saying three things:

1. I am not nearly as smart as you appear to think I am.
All I have is a well-developed knack for eliminating noise so I can focus on the essentials.

2. Anybody can make a program do more by adding more code; the trick is to make the program do more with less code.

3. The whole idea behind the CAL/SAL is to make a compiler that is as small, as simple, and as stupid as Gary Larson's dog - but
is nevertheless flexible enough so the USER can define a dialect of his language that is "natural" to him. And play "fetch" with it (dog joke).

\Ok, then we could use the simple "error e/s" or "error entrada/salida" as a name; for the description in text we could add "de".

"entrada/salida" = "input/output"? I thought "salida" meant "exit"! But I see you addressed this later when you said:

\Exit could be "termina". Salida is not so clear. Salga could is [be] better, is an order (imperative form of "salir", to exit).
\But "termina" is both "it finish/ends" and imperative "you, finish/end".

Yes, an imperative verb  is needed here. In fact, we need really good, short imperative verbs for...

1. leave a loop;
2. leave a routine;
3. leave a program (command in the code);
4. leave a program (via a menu command);

...that will not be confused with "finaliza" (as in "finish up our stuff" or "clean up our stuff" before leaving).

We need to get these right since they are keywords hardcoded in the (small, simple, stupid) compiler, and
not something the user can change later in his program files.

Note that changes to the compiler affect programs written with earlier versions of the compiler -
they may not compile properly with a newer version. But changes in el seso do not affect existing programs
since each program carries its own copy of the el seso that was current when the program was written.

When we get the compiler where we want it, we will change the name to SAL-2000 and focus on el seso changes only.
When we get the SAL-2000 el seso where we want it, we will change the name to SAL-3000 and release the whole thing to the public.

\We could avoid some words "de" for simplicity right now; it is easy to understand but when it becomes possible we prefer to read the "de".

I believe the theory is solid (at least in English). A record is an entity that has (ie, possesses) attributes. So...

"a record's field" and "the field of the record" and "el campo del registro"

...use the " 's possessive" form and the "prepositional phrase" form correctly. But a name with "of" or "de" in it is "cheating".

In the CAL/SAL compiler, for example, there is a record that looks like this...

The compiler has [a bunch of fields], an abort message, [a bunch of other fields]

...so when we say, "the compiler's abort message," we mean...

"the abort message [field] of the compiler [record]"

...but this is where the theory falls apart in Spanish, because the above translates to...

el mensaje de aborto del compilador

...which looks like "mensaje" is a field in an "aborto" record inside a "compilador" record. Do you see the problem?

It seems (to me) that Spanish treats almost all English "adjective noun" compound names as "noun DE adjective" phrases, with the
order of the components reversed. Now I have tried to meet Spanish halfway - by making the SAL look for the noun
at either end of a compound name (eg, both "mensaje aborto" and "aborto mensaje" will work) - but that's as far as I've got.

So... either:

1. The SAL user must learn to live without "de" in compound names; or
2. We need a different (but natural way) of indicating fields within records; or

...wait for it...

3. We need a programmer smart enough to change the compiler in a BIG way, so
that "de" is considered "a name-ender/field-inside-record indicator" only if it is followed by an article.
That might work. I might even be able to put it in there. But are these two statements true:

(a) A compound name with "de" will NEVER have the "de" followed by an article
(a) A field reference using "de" will ALWAYS have the "de" followed by an article

Wow. Sure helps to talk things out with one's companion (el compañero de uno).

Now that I think about it, a similar BIG change may let us handle "a" as a preposition (without interfering
with "a" as an English article). All we have to do is figure out if we're compiling an English or a Spanish statement and
then treat "a" accordingly. I do something similar when compiling TYPES now (since the rules for pluralizing names are
different in English and Spanish).

\In some replies I only translated without checking if it was for names, even for you to read the correct Spanish form. Just take away the "de"s. Sorry.

No hay problema.

\Si el trabajo no se completa, ... \ It is good Spanish. The best sounding.

I'm working on this form now. It is a problem because "no" is a "flag literal" in the CAL/SAL (like 123 is a "numeric literal").
So the SAL thinks that we're trying to pass a flag to the decider routine, like so (parameter types shown in [ ] ):

Si el trabajo no se completa,...
IF [trabajo] [flag] se completa,...

It is also a problem because in the CAL/SAL, the user is supposed to code up his deciders only in the "positive" form...

To decide if a work is complete:

...and then, via some "compiler magic", he can call that decider either way:

If the work is complete,...
If the work is NOT complete,...

The same decider will be called in both cases, but the result will be reversed (true->false; false->true) in the latter case.

And here another problem arises: the "negative word(s)" in Spanish occur BEFORE the verb, rather than after, as in the English...

If the work is NOT complete,...
Si el trabajo NO se completa,...

...so "no" must now be a "name ender" as well as a "negative word".

You'll see that I cheated around this problem in the Sal Monet by making "nada" a "name ender/negative word"
and using it inappropriately...

Si el trabajo nada es completa,...

...which Google understands, but will not re-translate the same way. I'm pretty sure I can fix this.

\Si el trabajo está incompleto, ... \ Like previous one.
\Si el trabajo no está completo, ... \ Fair.

I think we will end up treating "es", "se" and "está" as synonyms, so any of the above forms will (eventually) be accepted.

\Wrong ones:
\Si el trabajo es no completo.
\Si el trabajo está no completo.
\Si el trabajo es no completado.
\Si el trabajo está no completado.
\Si el trabajo es/está incompletado.

But not as wrong as "nada es"! I will fix this.

\Is better than what I proposed (mine is made up), except for superlatives that are correct and could be an alternative form like in English for endings "-est" -> "-ísimo".
\The "muy muy" is correct also. I proposed to keep your scheme and add "-ísimo" superlatives.

So you're saying...

\el color rojo clarísimo       -> el color rojo muy muy claroísimo
\el color rojo claro              -> el color rojo muy claro
\el color rojo claro              -> el color rojo claro
\el color rojo                       -> el color rojo
\el color rojo opaco           -> el color rojo oscuro
\el color rojo oscuro          -> el color rojo muy oscuro
\el color rojo oscurísimo   -> el color rojo muy muy oscuroísimo

...yes? Are you sure you want to add a different suffix with five extra letters (including one with an accent mark) to the superlatives?
Seems to me that may be more natural, but harder to remember, and definitely harder to type. But I'm probably thinking too much like a gringo.
And you're the one with the native tongue; so you choose and I'll change el seso del SAL-1006 to match.
But decide carefully; there are a lot of globals and a lot of assignment statements that I will have to change.

\But...
\Guardar/Cerrar/Selecciona(r) Todo
\verb + adverb

\Todo Mayúsculas/Mayúsculas
\Adverb + Noun
\There is no verb in the command, sorry, we could not use that noun for verb.

Yes, that's the problem. No verb. In English we use the "-ize" suffix to make some adjectives into verbs, like capital -> capitalize.
But we don't do that with "uppercase" and "lowercase"; we just cheat.

The idea, in any case, is to put the commands where the user is likely to find them.
I just can't see myself thinking "T" or "Todo" when I want to convert a selected string of characters to uppercase letters.

We could say, "Convertir a Mayúscula," but we already have too many commands under "C".
Or perhaps "Hacer Mayúsculas" or even "Fuerza Mayúscula" (for the user who is frustrated trying to find the command).

Wow. That was much more than I intended to write. I don't want to overburden you.

Gerry



