Look in your mailbox here for two new directories:

sal-1001
#2 prueba español llano

The sal-1001 is a complete replacement for the sal-1000. You can delete the sal-1000.
It includes all of the verbs, negative words, and prepositions you translated for us.

The #2 prueba español llano is another test program, full of bad Spanish. But it runs.

I'm not really sure what to do next... let me think out loud for a minute:

You said you like the hybrid system since it allows code sharing.
Well, code sharing has certainly been handy so far.

You ask: Do you picture a programmer working in his own language but sharing code in an international project?
I'm not sure what I'm picturing. Right now the main advantage of cross-language code sharing 
is that we don't have to translate the whole Noodle to get something to run.

You suggest that: The future hybrid system could also show the code in English or Spanish on demand.
Yes, that would be great. But the CAL/SAL doesn't know enough to translate back and forth.
That's Google's job, and even with all their programmers on the job, it still doesn't work quite right.
Keep in mind that the CAL/SAL processes language like Gary Larson's dog: "blah, blah, SUCK, blah, BOTTLE blah".
All it really does is match the types and "other words" it finds in a sentence to the types and other words it finds in a routine header.

You are also tempted to say: That a bilingual system is also a plus for the Spanish speaking community because it is always an opportunity to learn English by using Plain English.
I agree.

And you say: [The hybrid program] is also a simpler way to go, piece by piece modifying Plain English to accept Spanish as a second language for the code.
Simpler, yes, except where the languages conflict. For example, "a" is an important, indefinite article in English; "a" is just another preposition in Spanish.
Another example is those "reverse possessives".
A third example is adjective following nouns instead of preceding them.
Such things are easily handled by themselves, but more difficult to manage together.
I'm not as lazy as I sound: I just really believe that "If it's hard, it's wrong" because it will be unreliable in the end.

You say, CAL and SAL could evolve independently, keeping SAL bilingual.
That appears to be what is happening.

You say, To solve the problem with [the hybrid approach]: Could it be an option in the menus to choose the language for displaying messages and errors?
It could be an option, but it would take a lot of additional coding and testing and documenting to make that work.
If Dan didn't have a full-time business of his own, and Chuckles and Martin Amin were ready, willing, and interested, maybe.
But I think you and I need to keep this thing manageable, at least for now. As Sharon is always quick to remind me:

"A small success is more impressive than a big failure."

HERE IS WHAT I AM NOW THINKING, BASED ON ALL OF THE ABOVE:

The "Plain English Programming" instruction manual describes the original CAL, including the files, the interface,
a sample program (the CAL Monet), and the major Noodle types, variables, and routines (in the "Grey Matter Glossary").
It was a stable, reliable, well-documented, functional, useful system: a thing of unique beauty, even if I do say so myself.

I think we should try to convert that manual (and the program along with it) to Spanish.
When that is done, we'll have a reasonably complete, "marketable," documented version of Español Llano for you to play with, use, promote, teach, sell, whatever.

1. The file names will be Spanish.
2. The menus will be in Spanish.
3. The sample program will be in Spanish.
4. The error and status messages will be in Spanish.
5. The exposed parts of "la biblioteca" will be in Spanish.
6. The documentation will be in Spanish.
7. The Español Llano website will be in Spanish.

Just two issues:

1. Since Spanish is a "wordier" language than English, we'll have to make the margins on the pages narrower to keep each topic on a single page.

2. Since, as more and more of the system gets translated, it becomes increasingly difficult for me to work with it
(because I can't read and understand the code anymore), much of the work will have to be done by you.
I know it must sound strange to you (since you are bi-lingual): I can "write" Español Llano (with Google's help), but I can't read it!
I think, if you translate the manual, page by page, I can make the program match. Yes! Just 120 pages and we're done!
Whoops - forgot about the status and error messages; you'll have to translate those as well. I could use Google, but Google is usually wrong or inconsistent.

Let me know what you think. nothing is "set in stone" at this stage.

Gerry

