¡Muchas gracias querido Gerry!

I'm going slow but at steady pace.

Thank you for your pointings to some details in the instrucciones.
I've already finish with the SAL Monet instructions, but Glossary is still waiting for me to take a look.

I'm still looking for an opportunity to expose Español llano to some students.
I've proposed a tutorial on "Natural Language Programming" for an Embedded congress here at my university, but they were not interested enough.
Anyway, the attendees will be too technical people and I have not too technical examples.
Being a man too formed on engineering, I wonder if I need to do a tutorial with the classical order for such people, something like:
1. The assigments.
2. The conditionals.
3. The loop.
4. The routine.
5. The deciders.

in some orderly fashion.
Even examples more technical like the ones I've been trying on Project Euler, do you remember?
And also I wonder how to interface Español llano (even Plain English) to an Arduino, like your project with the Maze Solver.
I guess the hardware driver are key to this but many kits work thru simple USB-RS232.

In the meantime, I will finish the revision of Glossary.

Tu compañero Quijote de las Pampas,
Pablo.

--------------------------------------------------------
¡Excelente, Pablo!

I see you have been busy. ¡Bien hecho!

I copied the SAL-1016 to my disk and was able to make a baby with it.
I was also able to run my copy of the Sal Monet with it.
And I'm using it to write this message.
I can't read the instructions anymore, but I did manage to find some minor inconsistencies:

1. The graphic on page 62 says "primrea" y "última", but on page 106 it says "primero" and "último".
     I thought that if "cadena" was feminine, "subcadena" would also be feminine.

2. Near the bottom of page 84 I think "CREAR una imagen USANDO something" should say, "CREAR una imagen USANDO algo".

3. In several places it says "Glosario sesudo", but in others it says, "Glosario de Materia Gris" or just "Glossario".

Google translates "Glosario sesudo" as "Glossary glossary" which is strange.
But Google translates "sesudo" by itself as "brainy".

Now that we have a working, well-documented program, what should we do?
How can I help you?

Tu compañero Quijote,

Gerry

PS. I like your ".bat" file. When run at startup, it almost makes it look like the CAL is the operating system.
But it should not be in the SAL-1016 directory since we don't want to share our O'Mail directory with everyone
who gets a copy of the SAL. That is for especially trustworthy people only.



 