\Okay, Papa,

\We begin. I need to learn more about Spanish, and you need to learn more about how the CAL works, to help me.
\The good news is I do not think either of us needs to learn very much. The reason is this: The CAL cares about only a few things:

(1) Five kinds of sentences:

(a) type definitions, which always start with an indefinite article like A, AN, ANOTHER or SOME (UN, UNA, OTRO o ALGUNO);
(b) global variable definitions, which always start with a definite article like THE (EL, LOS, LA, LAS o LO);
(c) routine headers, which always start with an appropriate preposition like TO (PARA);
(d) conditional statements, which always start with IF (SI o CUANDO); and
(e) imperative statements, which start with anything else.

(2) Names, which are anything after an article (indefinite or definite) up to:

(a) any simple verb, like IS, ARE, CAN, or DO (es, es, puede, hacer), or
(b) any conjunction, like AND or OR (y, o), or
(c) any preposition, like FROM, TO, WITH, or BY (DE, A, CON o POR), or
(d) any literal, like 123 or "Hello, World!" (123 o "¡Hola, Mundo!"), or
(e) any punctuation mark.

(3) Reserved words:

(a) infix operators: PLUS, MINUS, TIMES, DIVIDED BY and THEN (which we can worry about later);
(b) special definition words: CALLED and EQUAL (LLAMADO y IGUAL); and
(c) special imperatives: LOOP, BREAK, EXIT, REPEAT and SAY (LAZO, INTERRUMPIR, SALIDA, REPETIR y DECIR).

\What the programmer puts before and after and between all the special words above doesn't matter to the CAL, as long as spelling is consistent.
\This command, for example...

Add 3 to a number.  ->  Agrega 3 a un número.

\...looks to the CAL like this...

add [number] to [number]  ->  agregar [número] a [número]

\...because the articles are no longer needed once we have found the variables and their types.

\So far, so good. No big problems, and no changes to the CAL's machine-code-generation routines.
\Until we come to possessives. There are no possessives in Spanish. So:

The box's top  ->  La parte superior de la caja

\In English, we have the record preceding the field, and the apostrophe always indicates there is a field name coming next.
\In Spanish, however, we have the field preceding the record, with (I hope) the word "de" consistently indicating there is a record name coming next.

\What I need to do is first enhance the CAL to accept a similar syntax in English...

The top of the box  ->  La parte superior de la caja

\...so I can see how to handle that in Spanish. This is not a trivial enhancement, since it affects both parsing and code generation.
\I'm going to need some time to think about the best way to approach this.
\The good news is that's the only major stumbling block I've discovered so far.

\I agree that we should use the most generally accepted form of Spanish.
\If the keywords at the top of this post are the same in all dialects, however, we should be able to support different dialects at the same time.
\Right now, for example, the SAL (Spanish CAL) is bi-lingual; understands both English and Spanish.
\My test program, for example, is completely Spanish and looks like this right now (in a text file called "el código"):

Para correr:
Puesta en marcha.
Hacer cosas increíbles.
Apagar.

Para hacer cosas increíbles:
Borrar la pantalla.
Espera la clave de escape.

\But my Noodle, called "los fideos," has an unholy mixture of the two languages like this:

La clave de escape is a key equal to 27.

Para espera una clave;
To wait until we hit a key;
To wait for a key:
Wait for the key to go down.
Wait for the key to come up.
Flush all events.

\As I said above, the CAL/SAL doesn't much care what we put between those articles, conjunctions, and prepositions.
\So once she understands that "LA" and "EL" are the same thing as "THE," it just works.
\I'm not sure how far I can get with this approach. But it lets me test without translating a lot of low-level Noodle (fideos) code.

\I almost forgot.  The primary entry point, "run," is hard-coded in the compiler, so we need to choose between...

Para correr:   o   Para ejecutar:

\...or whatever you think best.

\Your amigo,

\Gerry

