\ Yo, mo!

what you've written makes sense. i did follow through the introduction, typing it all in by hand,
until it worked. the copy-paste was pulling things from the desktop and the editor to make the
interface for the simple calculator program.

\ Okay, great. I don't see where a simple calculator needs EDITABLE text, however.
\ The simple kind of text in the sample program should suffice.

it'll take a while for us to have a common experience, since i'm fighting against all my muscle
memory right now. i can understand not wanting to change the experience to be more vim-centric. no
holy wars, no complicated modes and potentially unnatural key-sequence shortcuts.

\ We're shooting for a system that is NATURAL; a system that operates in the most obvious way.
\ Alphabetical menus with Print under "P" (rather than under File), for example.
\ Left-to-right evaluation of mathematical expressions with no precedence, for another.
\ If you're in doubt on that one, just ask a kid or other normal person what 2 plus 3 times 4 equals.

it's not that i think editing with a keyboard only is superior to using both mouse and keyboard; i
prefer keyboard only, because it's more consistent.

\ Consistency is good, though it's better to be inconsistent than consistently wrong, of course.
\ I'd need fewer tools if I installed screws with a hammer, but that would miss the point of screws.

it's not that i think editing with a keyboard only is superior to using both mouse and keyboard; i
prefer keyboard only, because it's more consistent. i frequently move from desktop to laptop and
back again. trackpads are better than they were, but they're still not as friendly as a mouse. and
i don't always have a mouse. when i'm using a macbook, left-click-drag in a windows vm is fiddly
at best. also page-up/page-down/home/end on a macbook are fn-ctrl-^/fn-ctrl-v/fn-ctrl-</fn-ctrl->,
where the ^v<> are the arrow keys. it was a way to overcome some of the weaknesses in the design
of the hardware that i'm using. if you're dead-set against my implementing this stop-gap, then
i'll comply. i'm not very opinionated. i'll just have to work only on my desktop, because using the
laptop is pretty miserable.

you might be questioning my choice for hardware given that i don't like the design. that's fair.
it was my work laptop with my company that they sold to me for a pittance when it reached its third
year of age. 

\ The CAL pretty much assumes that the user is working on a desktop machine with a printer, 
\  a real mouse, and dedicated HOME, END, PAGE UP, PAGE DOWN, DELETE, and ARROW keys.
\ The Macs of the 1980s were so simple, consistent and lovely because the software was
\ designed to work on one, and only one, well-defined hardware configuration.
\ Sometimes I offer to buy a student an appropriate machine so he or she can experience that
\ same kind of simplicity, consistency and loveliness with the CAL.

i've spent a lot of time and energy moving away from the mouse. i'm not averse to picking it back
up again, but i'll probably knee-jerk push back. much like you probably felt when you read about
my wanting to vi(m)-ize CAL.

\ I just don't see how I could have created the CAL's manual without a mouse. Or the materials for
\ our www.rhymingreader.com site. How does one create such things with only a keyboard?
\ And now I'm about to whip up a simple calculator (since you've got me thinking about one) and
\ my first step will be to design the interface on a page in the CAL's Writer - mostly with the mouse.
\ It's not just a personal opinion that a keyboard/mouse combo is MUCH more powerful than a keyboard alone.

i get the impression you're not one to shy away from asking the hard questions. i pretty much
teed myself up for [changes be made where the shortcomings are], but that didn't make
it easier to read. you're right about that analysis. i'm in the midst of a practical conundrum:
do i make the effort to learn to do things the CAL way, at the cost of efficiency in my day job?
or do i try to work in CAL the way i do other coding? or do i try to maintain both worlds?
i'll shoot for the first, but probably fall back to the third. some days i'll probably do the second.

\ I think you're underestimating your back brain. Did you forget how to walk when you learned how to run?
\ Of course not. And have you noticed that dancers tend to walk and run with a little more finesse than the rest of us?
\ Learning the CAL way may, in the end, improve (rather than impede) your day job performance.

i'd also like to point out that i'm giving a lot more information than i probably need to, but i'm
trying to bring you on the meandering journey that is my thought process. also i tend to over-
analyze things to the point that everything turns gray and there is no spoon.

\ That's one reason why God made wives. When Sharon says, "Enough! Pick one!" it clears the gray right up.

you're right in that i missed the point. or, rather, i quickly forgot it. i liked it when i read
it. i wanted it. but i forgot. i'm just used to adding features that i need (read: might want).

\ Dan and I made a practice of deleting about 10% of the CAL's code at the start of each programming day.
\ It made the system smaller, faster, simpler, more reliable, easier to document, and it eliminated a lot of bugs - 
\ after all, you can't have a bug in a feature than no longer exists!

i occasionally skip around in novels. i'm somewhat monstrous that way. but it's not entirely my
fault: i read catch-22 a couple of times in high school, so sometimes if a story progresses too
linearly, i get bored. but that's rare.

\ And hardly the case with the CAL Manual. Each and every page addresses a different topic.
\ In logical sequence (pages 1-54), then in alphabetical sequence for reference (pages 55-120).

i am still quite interested in the Osmosian Way. i will also try to write shorter messages. they
get a bit unwieldy to write; i can't imagine they are a pleasure to read.

\ Well, I'm having a ball! Keep those questions and comments coming!

\ All the best,
\ Gerry