Dear Gerry,

I've been so busy with the conferences on embedded systems, FPGAs, Arduino, home robotics, etc.
At least in the presentation of my lab, I told about Plain English and Español Llano, among other things that I'm researching without any budget.

Hope to retake serial comm in these days.

Tu amigo y compañero sureño.

Pablo
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Hello, Pablo!

This is how I tested the serial port routines:

1. I bought two USB-to-serial cables from Amazon:

https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0758B6MK6/

2. I plugged them into two USB ports on my computer and the Windows device manager
assigned them to "COM3" and "COM4".

3. I connected the two cables together using a "null modem" adapter:

https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B075XGRLXW/

4. Then I started up two instances of the SAL-1016.

5. In the first instance, I ran the program below: it listens to "COM3" until it gets an end-of-transmission byte.

Para ejecutar:
  Poner en marcha.
  Escribir "Abriendo..." en la consola.
  Abrir un puerto serie con "COM3" y 9600.
  Escribir "Leyendo ..." en la consola.
  Lazo.
    Recibir desde el puerto serie en un búfer.
    Si el error de e/s no está en blanco, escribir el error de e/s en la consola; salir.
    Si el búfer está en blanco, repetir.
    Append el búfer to una cadena.
    Si la cadena no termina con el byte end-of-transmission, repeat.
  Remove trailing noise from la cadena. \ Spanish header on this routine needs work
  Escribir la cadena en la consola.
  Refresh the screen.
  Escribir "Cerrando..." en la consola.
  Cerrar el puerto serie.
  Escribir "Presione ENTER para continuar." en la consola.
  Leer otra cadena desde la consola.
  Apagar.

6. Then I ALT-TABBED to the other instance of the SAL and ran this program:

Para ejecutar:
  Poner en marcha.
  Escribir "Abriendo..." en la consola.
  Abrir un puerto serie con "COM4" y 9600.
  Si el error de e/s no está en blanco, escribir el error de e/s en la consola; salir.
  Escribir "Transmitiendo..." en la consola.
  Transmitir "¡Hola Mundo! That's 'Hello World!' in Spanish." then the end-of-transmission byte al puerto serie.
  Si el error de e/s no está en blanco, escribir el error de e/s en la consola; salir.
  Escribir "Presione ENTER para continuar." en la consola.
  Leer una cadena desde la consola.
  Apagar.

7. When I ALT-TABBED back to the first instance, the transmitted message was on the console.

8. I pressed ENTER to end the first instance, then ALT-TABBED to the other instance and did the same.

So I think it works!

Gerry

PS. I've also put a directory called "serial chat" into your mail box.
This is Dan's test program, in English, but it runs in your SAL-1016.
It has a big gray console at the top (for output messages) and
a small white console at the bottom (for input messages).
When you run it, it asks for a port number.
You can enter just the number (like "5") or the whole name (like "COM5").
You can run it on two machines, connected with USB-to-serial and null modem cables,
or you can run two instances on the same machine connected like my test above.

