Looking good, Pablo!

The SAL-1003 has so much Spanish in it I can no longer read the menus or the messages!
I've kept some of the shortcut keys the same so I don't need the menus for most tasks.

The shortcut keys are summarized in a chart in your mailbox.

We have three tedious tasks ahead of us:

1. Names for all the bytes in the ASCII chart, page 58 of the manual. In the Noodle they look like this:

The at-sign byte is a byte equal to 64.
The backslash byte is a byte equal to 92.
The big-a byte is a byte equal to 65.
The big-a-acute byte is a byte equal to 193.
The big-a-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 194.
The big-a-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 196.
The big-a-grave byte is a byte equal to 192.
The big-a-ring byte is a byte equal to 197.
The big-a-tilde byte is a byte equal to 195.
The big-ae byte is a byte equal to 198.
The big-b byte is a byte equal to 66.
The big-c byte is a byte equal to 67.
The big-c-cedilla byte is a byte equal to 199.

Google does not translate them consistently. I can give you the whole list, if you think that best, or
perhaps you can give me a rule (and some examples) to follow so I can translate them myself.
Nouns and adjectives only, no "de la"s if possible.

2. Names for all the keys on the keyboard. In the Noodle they look like this:

The a-key is a key equal to 65.
The accent key is a key equal to 192.
The alt key is a key equal to 18.
The b-key is a key equal to 66.
The backspace key is a key equal to 8.

Again, Google does not translate these consistently. And again, I can give you the whole list, or
you can give me a rule and some examples and I'll do the grunt work.

3. Names for all the colors in our standard palette, page 63 of the manual. In the Noodle they look like this:

The lightest red color is a color.
The lighter red color is a color.
The light red color is a color.
The red color is a color.
The dark red color is a color.
The darker red color is a color.
The darkest red color is a color.

There is a lightest, lighter, light, [normal], dark, darker, darkest group for each of 13 basic hues:

gray, red, orange, yellow, lime, green, teal, cyan, sky, blue, purple, magenta, violet

The "*" menu at the far right of the menu bar has all the colors on it, in order.

Google makes it look like Spanish doesn't have anything like "light, lighter, lightest", so again, 
I can give you the whole list or you can give me a rule and some examples (along with names for
the 13 basic hues). Give me names for "brown" and "tan/beige" too, since these colors are actually
just dark and light shades of "orange".

When we get these three things done, the tedious, boring work will be at an end (I think).
Then we can get back to translating the manual, including the "Sal Monet" sample program and
the Gray Matter Glossary.

So far, so good, I would say. Still looks feasible. And still compiles itself in less than 5 seconds.

Dan helped me fix our machine-code uppercase, lowercase, and string comparison routines so they now work with accented characters.
And the "incremental find" (CTRL-B, start typing) now finds accented characters when you type them without accents.
For example, CTRL-B followed by typing "e s p a n o l" will find "Español", in both the Editor and the Writer.

The compiler, however, still thinks accented characters are different from their un-accented counterparts (eg, "n" is not equal to "ñ").
But we can change that easily now that we use "translation tables" in the comparison routines.

I hope all is well with you and yours.

Gerry






