Mi amigo Papa Pablo:

\Sorry for the hurry!
\I feel that I'm running besides a cheetah!

Please don't feel rushed. This cheetah is not as young as he used to be.

\All your recomendations are good for me, I'll try to follow you.

How pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! Psalm 133:1.

\"Armatoste" I suggest. See on Google what it is.

"El armatoste" tranlates as "the Hulk." That is acceptable.

\It is an honor for me. I'm on my knees with your sword on my shoulder.

The honor is mine.
I guess that makes you "El Primer Caballero de la Orden Osmosiana de los Programadores Español Llano."
Or do you prefer "El Don Quijote de la Orden Osmosiana de los Programadores Español Llano"?
Don Quijote is a hero of mine.

\I could say so for you, I'm glad that you are interested in working in this project for Spanish speakers for free.

It is a pleasure to help people program in their native tongues. Plain Spanish, Plain French, Plain Italian, Plain Russian, etc,
were all part of the plan from the start.

\Even I appreciate that you gave me the possibility to use Plain English (and now Español Llano) free of charge.
\I don't know how to make money from it, and I'm not interested in steal your job.

I'm not in this for the money. This is a labor of love (and hate) for me.
I hate what the world has done to the simple, easy computers that I loved so much in my youth.
I love programming in my native tongue with a clean, fast, simple interface.

\When you tell me here is the limit I'll stop by. You're the owner of everything I try.

Make all the money you can with it, with just two restrictions:

1. Don't corrupt it. Keep it clean and fast and simple. No scroll bars!!!
2. Remember us when you get rich, and send us a few pesos.

Oh, yeah. And make sure you teach Martin Amin Español Llano BEFORE you teach him C.
"Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil, and choose the good." Isaiah 7:15.

\Take me by the hand.

Let us tilt at windmills together, Don Quijote.

\In Programming Basics for freshmen I ask permission to use "Spanish executable pseudocode". They say yes with the scarce time I have for
\main subjects: half semester for flow diagrams with variables, counters, accumulators loops, the other half same subjects in C.
\What do you think? Could be an interesting test.

THAT would be an answer to prayer. Sharon has been praying for many years that I might teach Plain English
in a university setting. Unfortunately, I have no PhD, so that is unlikely. But if YOU can teach Español Llano
in my place, we will count that as many prayers answered. God is good. He doesn't always answer as expected,
but He is faithful to answer one way or another.

I've put the SAL-1002 into your mailbox. The menus are in Spanish. The status and error messages are still in English.
You have to compile it with the SAL-1001, or just run the sal-1002.exe directly with a double-click.
Try using it to edit the instrucciones and to send text messages. Let me know if you like it.

Notes:

1. I translated "Save All" as "Guardar Todo". I hope this is correct.
2. I translated "Yank" as "Paso", as you suggested.
3. There were some shortcut key conflicts. And now...
4. There is no shortcut for "Group" because "G" is now used for "Guarar". A small inconvenience.
5. There is no shortcut for "Enlarge" because "E" is now used for "Ejecutar". Not a problem.
6. There is no shortcut for "Indent" because "I" is now used for "Imprima". Not good for students who want to indent their loops.

The available keys are F, H, K, N, and P. How about "N" for "Indent / Más Sangría"?

I think I have all the commands, with proper capitalization, in all the right places.
Please review them in (a) finder, (b) editor, (c) writer modes.
And use the SAL-1002 instead of the CAL-4700, to give it a good workout.
Let me know if we need to make changes.
I have trouble using it because I can't read the menus and I keep hitting the wrong shortcut keys out of habit.

Thanks for your help and encouragement. May God establish the work of our hands, Psalm 90:17.

Gerry











