Dear Gerry,

\Dear Papa Pablo,

\\ Interesting [teach your kid to read] method.
\It's based on the idea that everyone else, as you might expect, does it backwards.
\Others start with letters and tell the kid what sounds the letters make.
\This is confusing because the letters make different sounds in different contexts.
\And it is backwards because they are trying to take the kid from the unknown (the letters) to the known (the sounds).
\Our approach takes the kid from the known (the sounds he has been hearing since birth) to the unknown (the various ways of spelling those sounds).
I guess we could devise an analogue method for Spanish.
Spanish have a more stable pronounciation for every letter and thank to this both spelling and pronounciation are always the same for every word with rare exceptions.

\\ And English have some convenience for teaching sentences that make sense with a few words.
\Yes, English is a lot more compact than Spanish.
Yes, we usually prefer English words for technical subjects that comes from the North (you) as we did not develop enough technology to translate it uniformly in so many countries.

\But I'm seeing (as I work with the SAL) that Spanish is a much prettier language.
I agree! (I'm smiling)
We love the sound of Spanish. For literature, poetry and music is so beautiful. Only French we found prettier sometimes. And Portuguese in Brazilians' mouth in their music.

\I'm even learning to get my articles and nouns to agree simply by asking myself which choice would "sound better."
One of the best way to learn every language, by the sounds; as you say we as babies learnt it that way. And adults are no exceptions!

\The Sal Monet is 99% translated and I'm pleased to say it works!
\There are a couple of compiler problems that Dan is helping me fix.
\So I need just a few more days to finish it, then I'll send it for you to review.
I'll be glad to try it.

\You will no doubt find a lot of bugs, bad grammar, and poor word choices.
\But at least they will be SPANISH bugs, bad SPANISH grammar, and poor SPANISH word choices.
I'm here ready for that.

\Tu compañero Quijote, Gerry.

\PS. Sometimes Google translates "is" as "se" or "está" instead of "es". I'm not sure which one to use.
Here we go again:

Sé: could be imperative singular second person of "to be"
(Tú/Vos) Sé bueno. - (You) Be good.

Sé: could be singular first person conjugation of "to know"
(Yo) Sé: I know.
(Yo) Lo sé: I know it.
The "Lo" is a reference to something that I know ("it").

Se: without accent, have plenty of uses as a reflexive pronoun and depends on the case to appear in any translation from English.

Please show me the sentences that your are getting "se" in google.

\PPS. Google also pairs "Diga si" with "Di no" instead of "Diga si" / "Diga no". Again, I'm not sure which one to use.
I prefer "(Usted) Diga" for imperative singular second person of "to say". A bit more formal form.

"(Tú) Di" is also the same case but for familiar treatment. This is the general case of speech for Latin America except Argentina, Uruguay.

In Argentina we say "(Vos) Decí" for the same familiar case. It comes from old Spanish "(Vos) decid".
I love the way we talk here but is not international enough. They usually understand us as well as we do to them.
We see a lot of soap operas from Mexico and they admire Argentine footballers and artists. And music from all over Spanish speaking zones cross over borders.

Note that in Spanish the person could be implicit - Tú/Vos/Usted, etc. - in the verb conjugation.

In conclusion: "Di" and "Diga" could be interchanged in SAL with the same effect. We could have both or more.


El Quijote de las Pampas, tu amigo y compañero Pablo.