Dear Gerry,

\Martin Amin came with a whole BASKET of bread under his arm! 
Yes, a basket full of bread!

\how much "C" ... teaching
I'm a man of Pascal tradition and Oberon present. Learn BASIC as a kid with Sinclair computers, LOGO on MSX and COBOL on a PC XT.
I even typed long pages of hexadecimal machine code for the Z80 on Sinclairs to get the most of it (games for my little brothers).
Pascal I learnt at Information Systems Eng. from Wirth book, and in the last 20 years I have some mail interaction with him.
Last year I have the luck to talk on video with him.

But here for the Electrical Engineering men (here says Electronics) no one try to use nothing beside C/C++.
They have no space in their minds for anything creative nor radical ideas. They are so serious!
I never convince one to try Oberon.
In ARM platforms from NXP, Oberon have at least half the footprint of C firmware by the NXP suites/GCC compilers.
They never get VHDL properly for two reasons: Pascal -> ADA -> VHDL; and VHDL describes hardware not a single sequence of execution,
 they never were exposed before to any alternative of text description on computers (functional, database description, declarative procedures, prolog)
 and when I teach it, it seems to late for the majority of them.
I discover Oberon and FPGAs in 1998 in an article by Wirth again in IEEE Computer Magazine.

Did I tell you that I discover that entire training books on PLC ladder programming are full of examples without any recipe nor systematic modeling
for solutions? That you need to memorize every solution to embrace control electrical installations already working or if you plan to build a new one
you need to copy one from the books?
I never get it.
And I discover that with only 4 circuits you could solve any problem on automation with relay logic. I summarize my method on two pages for my students!
And for you I have a brief description: series, parallel, inverter; start/stop circuit; end.

\try Jigsaw Puzzle program?
Yes, I give it a try, and get the idea about intruding list of files. I always feel the same about files. So difficult to get rid of.

\Gherkin/Cucumber
Yes, I also don't get it completely.
And you're right about it, it is written in Ruby, Javascript or the like.
But I think it is so good that they are finding the usefulness of plain language progressively.

\"wetware" programming
I'm grasping the begginings...

Pablo Cayuela
