i don't think i've told you what i do for my day job. i work as a senior software engineer (ugh, titles)
at a medium-sized software security start-up called endgame, inc. (www.endgame.com)

well, we have a single-agent endpoint-detection-and-response product that does real-time detection
and prevention of malware and exploits. i happened to have the agent installed and running (i
mentioned we're going through a release, so it's all-hands-on-testing) when i launched CAL to check
my o'mail, and CAL was blocked by the agent. it seems to have exceeded our malware threshold.

this threshold pulls information from the headers and resources and does some analysis on imports,
etc. we are always looking for false-positives (which this obviously is), but i wanted to get your
permission before i bring this up to our research team. would you be okay with my sending a copy
of CAL to my research team to put in our database of false-positives, so we can figure out what we're
seeing in CAL that looks like malware?

--- shift ---

i have been looking through the compiler at how you're creating the executables, and it seems like
it's all just bare-handed code-generation. do you do any optimization or unused-code removal?

--- shift ---

in your ideal future for CAL, would it (he? she?) be used for all types of programming? non-gui-based
applications? servers? operating systems? hardware drivers? arduino? ooh! what if i figured
out how to output arduino code? so noob diyers could write Plain English arduino code? but that
would probably need lots of other things installed (like serial programmers, etc). but interesting!

if Plain English programming becomes more widespread, it'll have to be able to create non-gui
applications, unless everything in the future has a gui. i know i'm not approaching this in an
Osmosian fashion (and Aunt Tilly is probably shaking her head--i'm sorry, Aunt Tilly!), but i
promise i'm trying! i just spend so much time writing console-based applications that i don't
think about graphics or point-and-click user interfaces. i even use lynx browser sometimes. i'm
obviously not your target demographic.

anyway, i'm still kicking against these goads over here. i'll overcome this stubborn streak. or not.
time will tell.

peace,
mo