\Dear Papa Pablo,

\Classes in three universities! Congratulations. What subjects are you teaching?

\ You probably noticed that I added an "old communications" directory to your mailbox and moved your old mail into it to cut down the clutter.

Pablo says: If I have time I will check it on the noodle to see the extract function (I've started giving classes in three universities!).

\ Let me save you some searching. These are the types and routines in the Noodle that are used to make nibble strings, from the top down:

A nibble is a byte. \ only low order 4 bits are used

A nibble string is a string. \ a string of readable nibble values, one ASCII character per nibble: digits 0 through 9 and letters A through F only

To convert a string to a nibble string:
Clear the nibble string.
Slap a substring on the string.
Loop.
If the substring is blank, exit.
Convert the substring's first's target to another nibble string.
Append the other nibble string to the nibble string.
Add 1 to the substring's first.
Repeat.

To convert a byte to a nibble string:
Split the byte into a nibble and another nibble.
Convert the nibble to the nibble string.
Convert the other nibble to another nibble string.
Append the other nibble string to the nibble string.

To split a byte into a nibble and another nibble:
Put the byte into the nibble.
Shift the nibble right 4 bits.
Put the byte into the other nibble.
Bitwise AND the other nibble with 15.

To convert a nibble to a nibble string:
Privatize the nibble.
If the nibble is greater than 9, add 7 to the nibble.
Add 48 to the nibble.
Put the nibble into the nibble string.

\ Below is the type and the routines in the Noodle that are used to convert a nibble string back into a hex string:

A hex string is a string. \ a string of bytes where each byte can be any value, from binary 00000000 to binary 11111111

To convert a nibble string to a hex string:
Privatize the nibble string.
Clear the hex string.
If the nibble string's length is odd, prepend the zero byte to the nibble string.
Slap a substring on the nibble string.
Loop.
If the substring is blank, exit.
Convert the substring's first's target to a nibble.
Shift the nibble left 4 bits.
Add 1 to the substring's first.
Convert the substring's first's target to another nibble.
Bitwise or the nibble with the other nibble.
Append the nibble to the hex string.
Add 1 to the substring's first.
Repeat.

To convert a byte to a nibble:
Put the byte into the nibble as a byte.
Uppercase the nibble.
If the nibble is greater than the nine byte, subtract 7 from the nibble.
Subtract 48 from the nibble.

Pablo asks: What about extract nibble from a selected file in a program?

\ The routine we use to extract nibble literals (as described in my previous post) resides in the Finder, not the Noodle.
\ Here are the routines:

To handle extract nibble literal given a node: \ this routine is called when the command is selected from the menu
If the node is root-level, cluck; exit.
If the node's selected nodette count is not 1, show error "Select only one file item to extract."; exit.
Show status "Copying...".
Put the node's first selected nodette into a nodette.
If the nodette's kind is not "file", show error "I can only extract files into nibble literals."; exit.
Read the nodette's path into a buffer.
If  the i/o error is not blank, show error the i/o error; exit.
Convert the buffer to a nibble string. \ a buffer is just a string, so this calls the "convert a string to a nibble string" routine in the Noodle
Prepend "$" to the nibble string.
Put the nibble string on the windows clipboard.
Show status "Copied". 

\ If you know  the path of the file you want converted, you only need these three lines to convert a file to a nibble string:

Put "c:\pablo cayuela\test.jpg" into a path.
Read the path into a buffer.
Convert the buffer to a nibble string.

Pablo also asks: Maybe after selecting a file from many.

\ Now THAT is not a simple matter, because the user needs to SEE a list of files before he can select one.
\ And then he needs some way of executing commands.
\ Plain English, as you know, doesn't have any dialog boxes that display file lists (or anything else) because we believe
\ the programmer should be free to make his file manager (and everything else) look the way he wants it to look.
\ Options:
\ 1. If he wants his interface and file manager to look like the CAL, he can start with the CAL's Desktop, Finder, and Noodle and delete the parts he doesn't need.
\ 2. If he wants it to look like a command-line system, he can start with the CAL's Noodle and use the CAL's console as an input-output device.
\ 3. If he want it to look altogether different, he can start with the CAL's Noodle, clear the screen, and do whatever he wants (from scratch). 

\ I added a directory to your mailbox that shows how Option 1 can be implemented. When you run the program it will look like the CAL, except...
\ the desktop will be blue and it will have a "Jigsaw Puzzle" command under the "J" menu when you're in the Finder.
\ Just choose a picture file (.jpg, .png, etc) and execute the command. When you're done with a puzzle, press ESC.
\ I didn't have time to delete the unnecessary stuff, and it may have bugs since I did it quickly and didn't test it thoroughly. Sorry about that.

\ Gerry