\ Hello Walter!

\ Sorry for the delay in responding; I've been so busy on other projects that I forgot to check my o'mail.

I understand.

\ I hope that Pablo someday finds the time to convert the whole SAL to Spanish. I like the fact that the SAL is
\ is bi-lingual, but separate compilers for each natural language will make each system smaller, simpler and more
\ efficient.

Yes I agree. The PAL will only interpret the three languages until the programs are converted.

\ Have you thought of a name for the Portuguese version? Google translates "Plain Portuguese" into "Português Puro",
\ but I have no idea if that is a good name. I'm not even sure "Español Llano" is the right name for the Spanish version.
\ If it helps, the "Plain" in "Plain English" means "simple, ordinary, normal -- something every English-speaking person can
\ understand. PAL is fine for the program name.

I'm thinking of calling "Português Livre", or maybe "Porto livre", meaning in English "Free Portuguese" or "Free Port". Free in the sense of being free of the strange speech existing in the programming languages in general. I also think PAL a good name, but it makes more sense in English than in Portuguese.

\ PS. You probably noticed that there is no word-wrap in here, because we're using the program editor to compose
\ mesages. Not exactly convenient, but it does allow me to put my responses in blue by making them "comments".

Beauty. I will then keep the scheme in our conversations

\ PPS. Some time ago I started writing a book called "How to Write a Plain English Compiler in Plain English".
\ I only got as far as page 3, but I've put a copy of those pages in your o'mail box since you might find some of the
\ information helpful.

Nice. The book is helping me to better understand the compiler. Thank you very much.

To facilitate the conversion operation I have created a version of the compiler that receives the directory to be compiled by the command line.
So I created a little routine in my Noodles to get the command line arguments. The following is the case if you want to use the codes in the CAL's Nodles:

To get a string from the command line arguments:
Call "kernel32.dll" "GetCommandLineA" returning a pchar.
Convert the pchar to another string.
Slap a substring on the other string.
Loop.
If the substring is blank, clear the string; exit.
If the substring's first's target is not the space byte, add 1 to the substring's first; repeat.
Put the substring into the string.
Trim the string.


Big hug.

Walter Jr