when i started the calculator interface, i didn't understand how lists and things worked, so i just
created lots of globals (0-button, 1-button, etc). then i decided that i hated that, so i figured
out how lists work. the code is much nicer. i was also getting some drip(s) debug output, so i
found out that i have to finalize/destroy memory allocations.

basically, my progress so far has gone thusly:
* get really excited and copy-paste whatever looks promising
* fail to compile
* do lots of searching and figure out how things are working
* fix things and optimize (prematurely)
* fix other things and flatten the unnecessary loops
* it compiles!!
* why isn't this status box updating?
* okay, the status is updating, but it's not clearing
* okay, it's clearing and updating, but it's not sticking to its boundary

and that's where i am now. i know how to fix the boundary issue, but my company is shipping a new
release of our software in a week, so i won't have more free time until then. at least i can have
the instructions up in a browser window to keep reading through the gray matter material.

as i have been working in a console-only text editor for all of my professional life (which is almost
half my actual life), i'll probably compile a new editor with a few changes to make it feel a little bit
more like vi(m). not because there's anything wrong with the editor; there's just too much muscle
memory fighting against me all the time. (lots of "j"s and "k"s wind up in the code, because that's
how i go up and down lines in vi(m)). since i use vi(m) for my day job (and i generally avoid using
the mouse), it'll just make me more productive.

i hope that last paragraph didn't raise your blood pressure. i don't think there are any shortcomings
in CAL; they're all in me. 

is there a way currently to find a string backwards? i've been getting around it by just going to
the top of the page and CTRL-F. if not, i can just write one.

also, i know this is your baby, so let me know if i'm doing anything that goes against the spirit
of CAL, please.

the calculator interface is on another computer, so once i boot that again, i'll upload it so you
can have a nice chuckle at my noob inefficiencies. i'm still struggling with treating coding like
speaking.

i have some questions about how CAL handles the overloading/polymorphic type-constraining in
function calls. i don't know the proper terminology for that. i'll probably do more reading and
figure out what's happening. it's usually what happens: i pose a question, then i find the information
some trivial amount of time later.

hope you had a very happy thanksgiving!

peace,
mo