Dear Gerry!

I am fascinated by the idea of having Plain Spanish! I never had the time before to do it by myself alone.

I really want to go forward with your initial work developing Plain Spanish.

\My problem is that I don't know if that is good or bad Spanish.
All your guessed or assisted translation to Spanish is good enough, but I recommend to touch it a little, 
to give it a general regular form.

\Wow. I thought English was a goofy language!
Spanish is indeed a language with plenty of rules!
And it is no so easy for a stranger to dominate.
English seems to us not so difficult at grammar level, but complicated at sounds/phonetic level, difficult for us to catch.
But as your Plain English have demonstrated is enough with some computer clasical processing to extract intention from the language expression.
I bet that Spanish also conforms to that.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Spanish, there are at least 3 ways to give commands, in order of recommendation for use in our language:

1. Second person Imperative form (it really uses verbs in third person); neutral and formal.
It not depends on regional variations.:
(Usted) Haga, Ponga, Coloque, Apague, Borre, Espere, etc. 

2. Second person Imperative form (with verbs in second person); it have regional variations; usual, colloquial:

Spain, USA, Latin America but Argentina, Uruguay:
(implicit person: Tu) Haz, Pon, Coloca, Apaga, Borra, Espera, etc.
We at Argentina understand that form, but it sounds to us a little stranger, like a Mexican or Spaniard.

Alternative form in Argentina and Uruguay have other forms, colloquial:
(implicit person: Vos) Hacé, Poné, Colocá, Apagá, Borrá, Esperá, etc.
It is so local that I don't recommend this form for the vast Spanish speaking world.
They understand, but it sounds to them Argentinian.

3. The infinitive verb, not recommended in formal language but in widespread use despite not being an elegant way of expressing.
The verbs end in ar/er/ir.

(any person) Hacer, Poner, Colocar, Apagar, Borrar, Esperar, etc.
In this case we understand as it was said:
(Hay que) Hacer ... .
(It needs) To do ... .

If we use this form, we need to distinguish it from a command:
Para hacer: (routine description)    versus     Hacer ... (order).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I will choose the first form for orders, because of neutral and acceptability by all Spanish speakers, and also
because no one generally treats the computer as a (second) person in colloquial form. For the third form, it is common, but also
not recommended as a good way of speach.

With this in mind to order or give a command to the computer with imperative verbs will be:

Puesta (noun) en marcha                  ->  Ponga en marcha. 
Hacer (infinitive) cosas increíbles    ->  Haga cosas increíbles. 
Apagar (infinitive).                            ->  Apague. 
Put ...                                                   ->  Coloque/Ponga ... .

For a routine, with the infinitive verb and an auxiliar word "Para", as you already use it:

-literal translation from English "To ..." to Spanish verbs with this form " Para ...ar", "Para ...er", "Para ...ir" (note the endings);

To run:        ->    Para correr:    /   Para ejecutar:  \ Literally To execute:. This could be achieved with synonyms that you already
 \ have in use in English version of newest CAL.

If we order "Haga cosas increíbles", the computer will search for "Para hacer cosas increíbles:".

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Key  ->  Tecla,  if we are talking of keys from a keyboard, this is always the correct one. "Clave" is used for "password".

the escape key is a key equal to 27.   ->   la tecla de escape es una clave igual a 27.

Put ...  -> Coloque / Ponga \ first form, prefered, but the two are good.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Possesives are a problem in automated translation, at least in the majority of software I saw.

Put the screen's right into the box's right.
Put the screen's bottom into the box's bottom.

\Corrected versions, somewhat longer:
Coloque/Ponga la parte derecha de la pantalla en la parte derecha de la caja/casilla.
Coloque/Ponga la parte inferior de la pantalla en la parte inferior de la caja/casilla.

\Another thing: How do you type letters with the accent marks above them?
\To get that special "í" in "increíbles," for example, I have to hold ALT and enter 0237. Not very convenient.
\Are the accent marks important?
Accents are important enough. We need a way to write them. It is usual that people forget to write them,
but they always know how to read them, because there are some cases that accents distinguish words.
Finally, Spanish without ñ and accents are really ugly for eveyone, but we accept it in cell phone communications that does not facilitate write them well.

The way to write them is to use the extended combinations from keyboards.
Widespread keyboards in Spanish speaking countries are the Spanish one and the Latin American.
In this we have accents in some keys, acute, grave, dieresis, circumflex, the Ñ/ñ in one key, the cedilla Ç/ç in one key.
Accents, ñ, ç and others symbols could be written by combination of an accent even with the US keyboard;
it is easy to write them if Windows/Linux is configured to generate the codes by combination of keys: accent key first, release, then the base letter key, release.
If it is not configured in the OS, we usually used the ALT plus numeric keypad to generate the ASCII8.
Codes used are ASCII8 (now rarely used), UTF (several, prefered for emails and web pages), Unicode, etc.

\If you don't have time for this, or don't think it's worth the effort, I understand.
I really think it's worth the effort.
\On the other hand, if you'd like to chip away at it, little by little, I'm your man.
And I'm yours for this project!
\I think we could probably have a basic Plain Spanish compiler working in about a year.
Wow! 
\Any idea what would we do with it, once it was complete?
Dear Gerry, I'm always thinking in teaching people outside Formal Studies and Engineering, becuase these ones are not so receptive, but when a method is widespread
they don't say anything; they spoke against Microsoft, but rarely against Google, and they protest against Arduino, but finally bought every sensor for Arduino because of price
and accessibility.
May be courses combining Arduino easyness for hardware, to young people, children, and teenagers.
May be also niches applications to technical people in Automation as you suggested before, for middle size business and smart home automation.

I'm really excited with this project, and I don't want to say that we have a bright future ahead, but a great challenge in applicability.

Pablo Cayuela
