\Definições de tipos

A caractere is a byte.
A letra is a byte.
A meio pedaço is a byte. \ nibble - somente low order 4 bits são válidos
A pedaço is a byte.

[numero]
A numero has
A first byte,
A second byte,
A third byte,
A fourth byte,
A low wyrd at the first byte,
A high wyrd at the third byte.

A número has
	A first byte,
	A second byte,
	A third byte,
	A fourth byte,
	A low wyrd at the first byte,
	A high wyrd at the third byte.


		[número~]
		
		A claridade is a número [0 to 1000].
		A saturação is a número [0 to 1000].
		A grau is a número [de 0 até 359].
		A grau preciso is a número [de 0 até 3599].
		A ponto is a número
		[de 0 até 3839; para dividir um círculo em pontos de compasso. 0 é o norte, existem 960 pontos por quarto de cículo].
		The número da cor do arco-íris is a número 
		[vai de um a 6 , indicando respectivamente vermelho, laranja, amarelo, verde, azul, roxo].
		\A corref is a número [like $00BBGGRR].
		The número armazenado da página is a número equal to 1.
		The margem do texto is a número equal to 1/24 inch.
		The indentação do documento is a número equal to 2.
		
		The text cutoff is a número equal to 500.
		\An endereço do número is a número.
		\A etiqueta is a número.
		\A fileiras por planilha is a número.
		\A número de planilha is a número.
		\A cópia de planilha is a número.
		An abca is a número.
		An abcc is a número.
		An posição absoluta is a número.
		An quantia is a número.
		An quantidade is a número.
		An valor is a número.
		A linha base is a número.
		A balde# is a número.
		A pedaço# is a número.
		A coluna# is a número.
		A cópia is a número.
		A distância is a número.
		A gcd is a número.
		
		A alavanca is a número.
		The heap count is a número.
		
		A l-param is a número.
		An lcm is a número.
		A margin is a número.
		A millisecond is a número.
		A multiple is a número.
		An offset is a número.
		An outdent is a número.
		The canetinha size is a número.
		A quotient is a número.
		A random número is a número.
		A remainder is a número.
		A rise is a número.
		A run is a número.
		A row# is a número.
		The saved tpp is a número.
		The seed is a número.
		A square root is a número.
		A string# is a número.
		A tick is a número.
		A twip is a número.
		
		A w-param is a número.
		A page número is a número.
		A percent is a número. \ a scale with 100 in the denominator
		Some times is a número. \ this is a
		
		[unidade]
		A unidade is a número.
		A bit is a unidade.
		[/unidade]
		
		The máximo de desfazimentos de página is a número equal to 32.
		[contagem]
		A contagem is an número.
		The máximo de vezes que se pode desfazer is a contagem equal to 32.
		A contagem total is a count.
		A contagem de baldes is a count.
		A contagem de bytes is a count.
		[/contagem]
		
		[gptoken][
		A gptoken is a número.
		\The gptoken is a gptoken.
		[/gptoken]
		
		[teclas]
		A tecla is a número.
		The backspace is a tecla equal to 8.
		The tecla tab is a tecla equal to 9.
		The tecla de limpar is a tecla equal to 12.
		The tecla enter is a tecla equal to 13.

		The tecla shift is a tecla equal to 16.
		The tecla ctrl is a tecla equal to 17.
		The tecla alt is a tecla equal to 18.
		The tecla pause is a tecla equal to 19.
		The tecla caps  lock is a tecla equal to 20.
		The tecla fixa  lockis a tecla equal to 20.

		The tecla Esc is a tecla equal to 27.

		The barra de espaços is a tecla equal to 32.
		The page-up is a tecla equal to 33.
		The page-down is a tecla equal to 34.
		The end is a tecla equal to 35.
		The home is a tecla equal to 36.
		The esquerda is a tecla equal to 37.
		The cima is a tecla equal to 38.
		The direita is a tecla equal to 39.
		The baixo is a tecla equal to 40.
		The print-screen is a tecla equal to 44.
		The insert is a tecla equal to 45.
		The delete is a tecla equal to 46.
		The zero is a tecla equal to 48.
		The tecla um is a tecla equal to 49.
		The tecla  dois is a tecla equal to 50.
		The tecla três is a tecla equal to 51.
		The tecla quatro is a tecla equal to 52.
		The tecla cincois a tecla equal to 53.
		The tecla seis is a tecla equal to 54.
		The tecla sete is a tecla equal to 55.
		The tecla oito is a tecla equal to 56.
		The tecla nove is a tecla equal to 57.
		The a-tecla is a tecla equal to 65.
		The b-tecla is a tecla equal to 66.
		The c-tecla is a tecla equal to 67.
		The d-tecla is a tecla equal to 68.
		The e-tecla is a tecla equal to 69.
		The f-tecla is a tecla equal to 70.
		The g-tecla is a tecla equal to 71.
		The h-tecla is a tecla equal to 72.
		The i-tecla is a tecla equal to 73.
		The j-tecla is a tecla equal to 74.
		The k-tecla is a tecla equal to 75.
		The l-tecla is a tecla equal to 76.
		The m-tecla is a tecla equal to 77.
		The n-tecla is a tecla equal to 78.
		The o-tecla is a tecla equal to 79.
		The p-tecla is a tecla equal to 80.
		The q-tecla is a tecla equal to 81.
		The r-tecla is a tecla equal to 82.
		The s-tecla is a tecla equal to 83.
		The t-tecla is a tecla equal to 84.
		The u-tecla is a tecla equal to 85.
		The v-tecla is a tecla equal to 86.
		The w-tecla is a tecla equal to 87.
		The x-tecla is a tecla equal to 88.
		The y-tecla is a tecla equal to 89.
		The z-tecla is a tecla equal to 90.

		The left-window is a tecla equal to 91.
		The right-window is a tecla equal to 92.
		The menu is a tecla equal to 93.

		The numpad-zero is a tecla equal to 96.
		The numpad-one is a tecla equal to 97.
		The numpad-two is a tecla equal to 98.
		The numpad-three is a tecla equal to 99.
		The numpad-four is a tecla equal to 100.
		The numpad-five is a tecla equal to 101.
		The numpad-six is a tecla equal to 102.
		The numpad-seven is a tecla equal to 103.
		The numpad-eight is a tecla equal to 104.
		The numpad-nine is a tecla equal to 105.
		The numpad-astrisk is a tecla equal to 106.
		The numpad-cross is a tecla equal to 107.
		The numpad-dash is a tecla equal to 109.
		The numpad-period is a tecla equal to 110.
		The numpad-slash is a tecla equal to 111.

		The f1-tecla is a tecla equal to 112.
		The f2-tecla is a tecla equal to 113.
		The f3-tecla is a tecla equal to 114.
		The f4-tecla is a tecla equal to 115.
		The f5-tecla is a tecla equal to 116.
		The f6-tecla is a tecla equal to 117.
		The f7-tecla is a tecla equal to 118.
		The f8-tecla is a tecla equal to 119.
		The f9-tecla is a tecla equal to 120.
		The f10-tecla is a tecla equal to 121.
		The f11-tecla is a tecla equal to 122.
		The f12-tecla is a tecla equal to 123.

		The numlock is a tecla equal to 144.
		The scrolllock is a tecla equal to 145.

		The equal-sign is a tecla equal to 187.
		The dash is a tecla equal to 189.
		The accent is a tecla equal to 192.
		[/teclas]
		
		
		[/número]

		An número do endereço is um número.
		
		[etiqueta]
		An etiqueta is a número.
			\The silent flag is a flag.
			
		[/etiqueta]
[/numero]

[pointer]
A pointer is a record containg 4 bytes.
	
	A byte pointer is a pointer to a byte.
		
		A zona is a byte pointer.
		
	[coisa]
	A coisa is a pointer to a coisa record.
		
		A fractal forest is a thing.
		A joke is a thing.
		A star is a thing.
		
		An entrada is a coisa with
		A número do endereço do nome,
		A número do endereço do thunk,
		A nome,
		An número do endereço.
		
		A fragment is a coisa with
		A etiqueta 
		[break, call external, call indirect, call internal, dereference, end if, epilog, exit, finalize, increment, intel, jump false, load address, load eax, loop, not, prolog, push número do endereço, push value, save eax, repeat, número do endereço da tarefa],
		A variavel (reference)
		[call indirect, dereference, increment, número do endereço de carregamento, load eax, pop, número do endereço push, push value, número do endereço da tarefa, save eax],
		Another variavel (reference) 
		[número do endereço de carregamento],
		A tarefa (reference) 
		[call internal, número do endereço da tarefa],
		An entrada (reference) 
		[call external],
		A numero
		[incremento],
		An número do endereço,
		A texto hexadecimal called code.
		
		An índice is a coisa with
		A contagem de baldes,
		A first balde and a last balde.
		
		An importação is a coisa with
		A número do endereço do nome,
		A número do endereço do título,
		A nome,
		An título de importação,
		Some entries.
		
		A minialcunha is a coisa with
		a texto,
		a tipo (reference),
		a variavel (reference),
		\ for bubbling
		a tipo atual (reference),
		a subtexto atual.
		
		A tarefa is a coisa with
		A zona (reference),
		A etiqueta de callback,
		A etiqueta de decisão
		A etiqueta de função,
		A etiqueta agrupada,
		A índice de apelidos,
		A alcunha, some minialcunhas, some parâmetros, a tamanho de parâmetro,
		An employs moniker,
		Some locais, a tamanho local,
		A título de tarefa, a texto do título,
		A conteúdo da tarefa, a texto do conteúdo,
		Some fragmentos,
		An número do endereço.
		
		A arquivo fonte is a coisa with a endereço da pasta and a vagão.
		
		A tipo is a coisa with
		A zona (reference),
		A nome, a nome plural,
		A alcunha parcial,
		A comprimento,
		A nome base, a tipo base (reference),
		A nome alvo, a tipo alvo (reference) [pointers only],
		A proporção de escla,
		Some campos [records only],
		A etiqueta de cozimento,
		A optional info resolved flag.
		
		A variavel is a coisa with
		A zona (reference),
		A tipo de escopo [literal, global, local, parameter, scratch],
		A compiled flag,
		A nome, a apelido, a tipo do nome,
		A tipe (reference), \ actual type on literal, global, local; dereferenced type on parameters and scratches
		An endereço [globals and literals only] or
		An deslocamento at the número do endereço [locals, parameters, and fields only],
		A contagem[fields only],
		A etiqueta de referência [fields only],
		A redefinition target name [fields only],
		A etiqueta com o valor [parameters only],
		An conteúdo global [globals only],
		An texto inicializador [globals only],
		A literal (reference) [globals only - constant with which to initalize the global],
		A texto hexadecimal called dados [literals only].
		
		[/coisa]
		
[/pointer]



[plural]
	The arquivos fonte are some arquivos fonte.
	The globais are some globals.
	The literais are some literals.
	The source files are some source files.
	The tarefas are some tarefas.
	The tipos are some tipos.
	A referência de tarefa is some minialcunhas.
	.
[/plural]



[texto]
A texto has a first byte pointer and a last byte pointer.

	An mensagem de erro is a texto.
	A alcunha is a texto.
	[nome]
	A nome is a texto.
		A apelido is a nome.
		A nome do tipo is a nome.
	[/nome]
	
	[subtexto]
	A subtexto is a texto.
		A conteúdo global is a subtexto.
		A conteúdo da tarefa is a subtexto.
		A título da tarefa is a subtexto.
	[/subtexto]
		
		
	A alcunha is a texto.
	A alcunha is a texto.
	A alcunha is a texto.
	

[/texto]

[timer]
A timer has a contagem, some start ticks and some total ticks.

	The timer de adição de tarefas embutidas de memória is a timer.
	The timer de inicialização de tarefas embutidas de memória is a timer.
	The timer de endereçamento is a timer.
	The timer de cálculo is a timer.
	The timer de agrupamento de conteúdo de tarefas is a timer.
	The timer de agrupamente de títulos de tarefa is a timer.
	The timer de catalogação de ferramentas  is a timer.
	The timer de catalogação timer is a timer.
	The timer de deslocamento is a timer.
	The timer de carregamento is a timer.
	The timer de análise de globais is a timer.
	The timer de análise de tipos is a timer.
	Thetimer de verificação is a timer.
	The timer de modificação is a timer.
	The timer de composição is a timer.
[/timer]

[título de importação]
An título de importação has
An número de endereço called original first thunk,
A número called AnoMesDiaHora,
An número de endereço called forwarder chain,
An número de endereço called name número de endereço de memória,
An número de endereço called first thunk memory address.
[/título de importação]


[figura]
An arco is a figura.
A árvore is a figura.
A árvore com galhos is a figura.
A círculo is a figura.
A circulo is a figura.
A crescente is a figura.
A cubo is a figura.
A Curva de Koch is a figura.
A decágono is a figura. 
A diamante is a figura.
A dodecágono figura is a figura.
A espiral is a figura.
A estrela de cinco pontas is a figura.
A estrela de seis pontas is a figura.
A fancy arrow is a figura.
A figura geométrica is a figura.
A folha is a figura.
A heptágono is a figura. 
A hexágono is a figura.
A meia folha is a figura.
A meio semicírculo is a figura.
A minguante is a figura.
A nonágono is a figura. 
An octágono is a figura.
An octógono is a figura.
A pentágono is a figura.]
A retângulo is a figura.
A semicírculo is a figura.
A semicírculo florido is a figura.
A sólido is a figura.
A triângulo is a figura.
A triangulo is a figura.
[/figura]
A ponto is an ellipse.


[região]
The região do código is a região.
The região dos dados is a região.
The região de importação is a região.
[/região]




[caixa]
\A roundy box is a box with
A caixa de seleção is a caixa.
A sheet is a box.
The zero box is a box.
The focus box is a box.

[vagão]
A pdf is a vagão.
[/vagão]

[bytes]
	[byte pointer]
	A zona is a byte pointer.
	A finger is a byte pointer.
	A pchar is a byte pointer.
	[/byte pointer]



The null byte is a byte equal to 0.
The start-of-heading byte is a byte equal to 1.
The start-of-text byte is a byte equal to 2.
The end-of-text byte is a byte equal to 3.
The end-of-transmission byte is a byte equal to 4.
The enquiry byte is a byte equal to 5.
The acknowledge byte is a byte equal to 6.
The bell byte is a byte equal to 7.
The backspace is a tecla equal to 8.
The tab byte is a byte equal to 9.

The linefeed byte is a byte equal to 10.
The vertical-tab byte is a byte equal to 11.
The form-feed byte is a byte equal to 12.
The return byte is a byte equal to 13.
The shift-out byte is a byte equal to 14.
The shift-in byte is a byte equal to 15.
The data-link-escape byte is a byte equal to 16.
The device-control-one byte is a byte equal to 17.
The device-control-two byte is a byte equal to 18.
The device-control-three byte is a byte equal to 19.
The device-control-four byte is a byte equal to 20.

The negative-acknowledge byte is a byte equal to 21.
The synchronous-idle byte is a byte equal to 22.
The end-of-transmission-block byte is a byte equal to 23.
The cancel byte is a byte equal to 24.
The end-of-medium byte is a byte equal to 25.
The substitute byte is a byte equal to 26.
The escape byte is a byte equal to 27.
The file-separator byte is a byte equal to 28.
The group-separator byte is a byte equal to 29.

The record-separator byte is a byte equal to 30.
The unit-separator byte is a byte equal to 31.
The space byte is a byte equal to 32.
The exclamation byte is a byte equal to 33.
The exclamation-mark byte is a byte equal to 33.
The double-quote byte is a byte equal to 34.
The número-sign byte is a byte equal to 35.
The dollar-sign byte is a byte equal to 36.
The percent-sign byte is a byte equal to 37.
The ampersand byte is a byte equal to 38.
The single-quote byte is a byte equal to 39.

The left-paren byte is a byte equal to 40.
The right-paren byte is a byte equal to 41.
The asterisk byte is a byte equal to 42.
The cross byte is a byte equal to 43.
The plus-sign byte is a byte equal to 43.
The comma byte is a byte equal to 44.
The dash byte is a byte equal to 45.
The minus-sign byte is a byte equal to 45.
The period byte is a byte equal to 46.
The slash byte is a byte equal to 47.
The zero byte is a byte equal to 48.
The one byte is a byte equal to 49.

The two byte is a byte equal to 50.
The three byte is a byte equal to 51.
The four byte is a byte equal to 52.
The five byte is a byte equal to 53.
The six byte is a byte equal to 54.
The seven byte is a byte equal to 55.
The eight byte is a byte equal to 56.
The nine byte is a byte equal to 57.
The colon byte is a byte equal to 58.
The semi-colon byte is a byte equal to 59.

The left-alligator byte is a byte equal to 60.
The less-than-sign byte is a byte equal to 60.
The equal-sign byte is a byte equal to 61.
The greater-than-sign byte is a byte equal to 62.
The right-alligator byte is a byte equal to 62.
The question-mark byte is a byte equal to 63.
The at-sign byte is a byte equal to 64.
The big-a byte is a byte equal to 65.
The big-b byte is a byte equal to 66.
The big-c byte is a byte equal to 67.
The big-d byte is a byte equal to 68.
The big-e byte is a byte equal to 69.

The big-f byte is a byte equal to 70.
The big-g byte is a byte equal to 71.
The big-h byte is a byte equal to 72.
The big-i byte is a byte equal to 73.
The big-j byte is a byte equal to 74.
The big-k byte is a byte equal to 75.
The big-l byte is a byte equal to 76.
The big-m byte is a byte equal to 77.
The big-n byte is a byte equal to 78.
The big-o byte is a byte equal to 79.
The big-p byte is a byte equal to 80.
The big-q byte is a byte equal to 81.
The big-r byte is a byte equal to 82.
The big-s byte is a byte equal to 83.
The big-t byte is a byte equal to 84.
The big-u byte is a byte equal to 85.
The big-v byte is a byte equal to 86.
The big-w byte is a byte equal to 87.
The big-x byte is a byte equal to 88.
The big-y byte is a byte equal to 89.

The big-z byte is a byte equal to 90.
The left-bracket byte is a byte equal to 91.
The backslash byte is a byte equal to 92.
The right-bracket byte is a byte equal to 93.
The caret byte is a byte equal to 94.
The underscore byte is a byte equal to 95.
The accent byte is a byte equal to 96.
The little-a byte is a byte equal to 97.
The little-b byte is a byte equal to 98.
The little-c byte is a byte equal to 99.


The little-d byte is a byte equal to 100.
The little-e byte is a byte equal to 101.
The little-f byte is a byte equal to 102.
The little-g byte is a byte equal to 103.
The little-h byte is a byte equal to 104.
The little-i byte is a byte equal to 105.
The little-j byte is a byte equal to 106.
The little-k byte is a byte equal to 107.
The little-l byte is a byte equal to 108.
The little-m byte is a byte equal to 109.

The little-n byte is a byte equal to 110.
The little-o byte is a byte equal to 111.
The little-p byte is a byte equal to 112.
The little-q byte is a byte equal to 113.
The little-r byte is a byte equal to 114.
The little-s byte is a byte equal to 115.
The little-t byte is a byte equal to 116.
The little-u byte is a byte equal to 117.
The little-v byte is a byte equal to 118.
The little-w byte is a byte equal to 119.

The little-x byte is a byte equal to 120.
The little-y byte is a byte equal to 121.
The little-z byte is a byte equal to 122.
The left-brace byte is a byte equal to 123.
The bar byte is a byte equal to 124.
The vertical-bar byte is a byte equal to 124.
The right-brace byte is a byte equal to 125.
The tilde byte is a byte equal to 126.
The delete byte is a byte equal to 127.
The euro-sign byte is a byte equal to 128.

The lower-single-quote byte is a byte equal to 130.
The little-f-hook byte is a byte equal to 131.
The lower-double-quote byte is a byte equal to 132.
The ellipsis byte is a byte equal to 133.
The dagger byte is a byte equal to 134.
The double-dagger byte is a byte equal to 135.
The circumflex byte is a byte equal to 136.
The per-mille-sign byte is a byte equal to 137.
The big-s-caron byte is a byte equal to 138.
The left-alligator-quote byte is a byte equal to 139.

The big-oe byte is a byte equal to 140.
The big-z-caron byte is a byte equal to 142.
The left-single-quote byte is a byte equal to 145.
The right-single-quote byte is a byte equal to 146.
The left-double-quote byte is a byte equal to 147.
The right-double-quote byte is a byte equal to 148.
The bullet byte is a byte equal to 149.

The en-dash byte is a byte equal to 150.
The em-dash byte is a byte equal to 151.
The little-tilde byte is a byte equal to 152.
The trade-mark byte is a byte equal to 153.
The little-s-caron byte is a byte equal to 154.
The right-alligator-quote byte is a byte equal to 155.
The little-oe byte is a byte equal to 156.
The little-z-caron byte is a byte equal to 158.
The big-y-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 159.

The non-breaking-space byte is a byte equal to 160.
The inverted-exclamation-mark byte is a byte equal to 161.
The cent-sign byte is a byte equal to 162.
The hash-tag byte is a byte equal to 163.
The hashtag byte is a byte equal to 163.
The pound-sign byte is a byte equal to 163.
The currency-sign byte is a byte equal to 164.
The yen-sign byte is a byte equal to 165.
The broken-bar byte is a byte equal to 166.
The sector byte is a byte equal to 167.
The diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 168.
The copyright byte is a byte equal to 169.

The feminine byte is a byte equal to 170.
The left-double-alligator-quote byte is a byte equal to 171.
The not byte is a byte equal to 172.
The soft-dash byte is a byte equal to 173.
The registered byte is a byte equal to 174.
The registered-trade-mark byte is a byte equal to 174.
The upperscore byte is a byte equal to 175.
The degree-symbol byte is a byte equal to 176.
The plus-or-minus byte is a byte equal to 177.
The superscript-two byte is a byte equal to 178.
The superscript-three byte is a byte equal to 179.

The acute-accent byte is a byte equal to 180.
The micro byte is a byte equal to 181.
The paragraph byte is a byte equal to 182.
The small-bullet byte is a byte equal to 183.
The cedilla byte is a byte equal to 184.
The superscript-one byte is a byte equal to 185.
The masculine byte is a byte equal to 186.
The right-double-alligator-quote byte is a byte equal to 187.
The one-quarter byte is a byte equal to 188.
The one-half byte is a byte equal to 189.

The three-quarter byte is a byte equal to 190.
The inverted-question-mark byte is a byte equal to 191.
The big-a-grave byte is a byte equal to 192.
The big-a-acute byte is a byte equal to 193.
The big-a-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 194.
The big-a-tilde byte is a byte equal to 195.
The big-a-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 196.
The big-a-ring byte is a byte equal to 197.
The big-ae byte is a byte equal to 198.
The big-c-cedilla byte is a byte equal to 199.

The big-e-grave byte is a byte equal to 200.
The big-e-acute byte is a byte equal to 201.
The big-e-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 202.
The big-e-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 203.
The big-i-grave byte is a byte equal to 204.
The big-i-acute byte is a byte equal to 205.
The big-i-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 206.
The big-i-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 207.
The big-eth byte is a byte equal to 208.
The big-n-tilde byte is a byte equal to 209.

The big-o-grave byte is a byte equal to 210.
The big-o-acute byte is a byte equal to 211.
The big-o-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 212.
The big-o-tilde byte is a byte equal to 213.
The big-o-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 214.
The multiplication-symbol byte is a byte equal to 215.
The big-o-stroke byte is a byte equal to 216.
The big-u-grave byte is a byte equal to 217.
The big-u-acute byte is a byte equal to 218.
The big-u-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 219.

The big-u-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 220.
The big-y-acute byte is a byte equal to 221.
The big-thorn byte is a byte equal to 222.
The sharp-s byte is a byte equal to 223.
The little-a-grave byte is a byte equal to 224.
The little-a-acute byte is a byte equal to 225.
The little-a-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 226.
The little-a-tilde byte is a byte equal to 227.
The little-a-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 228.
The little-a-ring byte is a byte equal to 229.

The little-ae byte is a byte equal to 230.
The little-c-cedilla byte is a byte equal to 231.
The little-e-grave byte is a byte equal to 232.
The little-e-acute byte is a byte equal to 233.
The little-e-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 234.
The little-e-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 235.
The little-i-grave byte is a byte equal to 236.
The little-i-acute byte is a byte equal to 237.
The little-i-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 238.
The little-i-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 239.

The little-eth byte is a byte equal to 240.
The little-n-tilde byte is a byte equal to 241.
The little-o-grave byte is a byte equal to 242.
The little-o-acute byte is a byte equal to 243.
The little-o-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 244.
The little-o-tilde byte is a byte equal to 245.
The little-o-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 246.
The division-symbol byte is a byte equal to 247.
The little-o-stroke byte is a byte equal to 248.
The little-u-grave byte is a byte equal to 249.

The little-u-acute byte is a byte equal to 250.
The little-u-circumflex byte is a byte equal to 251.
The little-u-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 252.
The little-y-acute byte is a byte equal to 253.
The little-thorn byte is a byte equal to 254.
The little-y-diaeresis byte is a byte equal to 255.

[/bytes]


[quadro]
The quadro atual is a quadro.
The quadro de memória is a quadro.
The quadro da impressora is a quadro.
The quadro da tela is a quadro.
[/tela]


[cores]
The desktop cor is a cor.
The comment cor is a cor.
The preta cor is a cor.
The azul cor is a cor.
The marrom cor is a cor.
A brownish cor is a cor.
The clear cor is a cor.
The cyan cor is a cor.
The escuro azul cor is a cor.
The escuro marrom cor is a cor.
A escuro cor is a cor.
The escuro cyan cor is a cor.
The escuro cinza cor is a cor.
The escuro verde cor is a cor.
The escuro lime cor is a cor.
The escuro magenta cor is a cor.
The escuro laranja cor is a cor.
The escuro rosa cor is a cor.
The escuro roxo cor is a cor.
The escuro vermelho cor is a cor.
The escuro sky azul cor is a cor.
The escuro sky cor is a cor.
The escuro teal cor is a cor.
The escuro violeta cor is a cor.
The escuro amarelo cor is a cor.
The mais escuro azul cor is a cor.
The mais escuro marrom cor is a cor.
The mais escuro cyan cor is a cor.
The mais escuro cinza cor is a cor.
The mais escuro verde cor is a cor.
The mais escuro lime cor is a cor.
The mais escuro magenta cor is a cor.
The mais escuro laranja cor is a cor.
The mais escuro roxo cor is a cor.
The mais escuro vermelho cor is a cor.
The mais escuro sky azul cor is a cor.
The mais escuro sky cor is a cor.
The mais escuro teal cor is a cor.
The mais escuro violeta cor is a cor.
The mais escuro amarelo cor is a cor.
The darkest azul cor is a cor.
The darkest marrom cor is a cor.
The darkest cyan cor is a cor.
The darkest cinza cor is a cor.
The darkest verde cor is a cor.
The darkest lime cor is a cor.
The darkest magenta cor is a cor.
The darkest laranja cor is a cor.
The darkest roxo cor is a cor.
The darkest vermelho cor is a cor.
The darkest sky azul cor is a cor.
The darkest sky cor is a cor.
The darkest teal cor is a cor.
The darkest violeta cor is a cor.
The darkest amarelo cor is a cor.
The gold cor is a cor.
The cinza cor is a cor.
The verde cor is a cor.
A greenish cor is a cor.
The destaque cor is a cor.
The clara azul cor is a cor.
A clara cor is a cor.
The clara cyan cor is a cor.
The clara cinza cor is a cor.
The clara verde cor is a cor.
The clara lime cor is a cor.
The clara magenta cor is a cor.
The clara laranja cor is a cor.
The clara roxo cor is a cor.
The clara vermelho cor is a cor.
The clara sky azul cor is a cor.
The clara sky cor is a cor.
The clara teal cor is a cor.
The clara violeta cor is a cor.
The clara amarelo cor is a cor.
The mais clara azul cor is a cor.
The mais clara cyan cor is a cor.
The mais clara cinza cor is a cor.
The mais clara verde cor is a cor.
The mais clara lime cor is a cor.
The mais clara magenta cor is a cor.
The mais clara laranja cor is a cor.
The mais clara roxo cor is a cor.
The mais clara vermelho cor is a cor.
The mais clara sky azul cor is a cor.
The mais clara sky cor is a cor.
The mais clara teal cor is a cor.
The mais clara violeta cor is a cor.
The mais clara amarelo cor is a cor.
The lightest azul cor is a cor.
The lightest cyan cor is a cor.
The lightest cinza cor is a cor.
The lightest verde cor is a cor.
The lightest lime cor is a cor.
The lightest magenta cor is a cor.
The lightest laranja cor is a cor.
The lightest roxo cor is a cor.
The lightest vermelho cor is a cor.
The lightest sky azul cor is a cor.
The lightest sky cor is a cor.
The lightest teal cor is a cor.
The lightest violeta cor is a cor.
The lightest amarelo cor is a cor.
The lime cor is a cor.
The magenta cor is a cor.
The laranja cor is a cor.
A pastel cor is a cor.
An canetinha is a cor.
The rosa cor is a cor.
The roxo cor is a cor.
A arco-íris cor is a cor.
A muito escuro cor is a cor.
A muito clara cor is a cor.
A muito muito escuro cor is a cor.
A muito muito clara cor is a cor.
The vermelho cor is a cor.
The sky azul cor is a cor.
The sky cor is a cor.
A solid cor is a cor.
The tan cor is a cor.
The teal cor is a cor.
A very escuro cor is a cor.
A very clara cor is a cor.
A very very escuro cor is a cor.
A very very clara cor is a cor.
The violeta cor is a cor.
The branca cor is a cor.
The amarelo cor is a cor.
The grid cor is a cor.
The tracer cor is a cor. \ tracer - initialized in desktop
[/cores]

[comando]
The selected command is a comando.
[/comando]

[console]
The console is a console.
[/console]


[contexto]
The context is a context.
[/contexto]




[setas]
The setinha is a seta.
The mãozinha is a seta.
The cursor de texto is a seta.
[/setas]


[fonte]
The osmosian font resource is a font resource.
The default font is a font.
[/fonte]


[fração]
The pedaço de pizza is a fração equal to 355/113.
The raiz de dois is a fraction equal to 99/70.
A proporção is a fração.
[/fração]


\A gpbitmap is a gpimage.



\A cursor is a alavanca.
\A file is a alavanca.
\A font resource is a alavanca.
\An hbitmap is a alavanca.
\An hbrush is a alavanca.
\An hdc is a alavanca.
\An hfont is a alavanca.
\An hicon is a alavanca.
\An hpen is a alavanca.
\An hrgn is a alavanca.
\The printer device mode alavanca is a alavanca.
\A process is a alavanca.
\The stdin alavanca is a alavanca.
\The stdout alavanca is a alavanca.
\A window is a alavanca.

\The saved memory hbitmap is a hbitmap.

\The command height is a height equal to 1/3 inch.

[texto hexadecimal]
A mask is a texto hexadecimal
A onda de som is a texto hexadecimal.
[/texto hexadecimal]




[botão de regulagem]
A cropper is a botão de regulagem.
A sizer is a botão de regulagem.
[/botão de regulagem]


[letra]
The next letter is a letter equal to 65 [the big-a byte].
The large letter height is a letter height.
The medium letter height is a letter height.
The small letter height is a letter height.
[/letra]

A brightness is a lightness.

[linhas]
A linha horizontal is a linha.
The zero line is a linha. \ tracer
The focus line is a linha. \ tracer
[/linhas]


[local]
\An intermediate is a local.
\A scratch is a local.
[/local]

[máscara]
\An and-mask is a mask.
\An xor-mask is a mask.
[/máscara]

[menu]
The menu atual is a menu.
\The menu is a menu.  \repetido
\ A submenu is a menu. \repetido 
[menus]

[alcunha]
A alcunha parcial is a alcunha.
[/alcunha]

[endereços]
\The image base is an address equal to 4194304 [$00400000].
\The current header address is an address.
\The current name address is an address.
\The current thunk address is an address.
[/endereços]

[âncoras]
\The find anchor is an anchor.
[/âncoras]

[indent]
\An indent is an count. \ *** a count?
/[indents]



\The event queue is an event queue.

\The current event is an event.
\An input is an event.

\The null hbrush is an hbrush.

\A canvas is an hdc.

\The edge height is an height equal to 1/4 inch.

\The null hfont is an hfont.

\The null hpen is an hpen.

\The global index is an index.
\The literal index is an index.
\The routine index is an index.
\The type index is an index.
\The utility index is an index.

\A left click is an input.



[nome]
A nickname is a name.
A type name is a name.
A nodette is a node.
[/nome]



The page clipboard is a page clipboard.
A copied page is a page.
The find page is a page.
A saved page is a page.
A position is a pair with a column# and a row#.
A node selection is a pair with an anchor nodette, a caret nodette.
A document selection is a pair with an anchor page, a caret page.
A spot is a pair with an x coord and a y coord and a left at the x coord and a top at the y coord.
A sector is a pair with an x coord and an y coord [indicating the left-top of the sector].
A difference is a pair.
A grid is a pair.
A ratio pair is a pair.
The remembered pdf path is a path.
The temp path is a path.
A wave file is a path.
The remembered picture path is a path.
A directory is a path. \ start of path to last slash inclusive = c:\folder1\folder2\
The pdf state is a pdf state.
The preta canetinha is a canetinha.
The azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The marrom canetinha is a canetinha.
The clear canetinha is a canetinha.
The cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro marrom canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro rosa canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The escuro amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro marrom canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais escuro amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest marrom canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The darkest amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
The gold canetinha is a canetinha.
The cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The clara amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The mais clara amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest cyan canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest cinza canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest verde canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The lightest amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
The lime canetinha is a canetinha.
The magenta canetinha is a canetinha.
The laranja canetinha is a canetinha.
The rosa canetinha is a canetinha.
The roxo canetinha is a canetinha.
The vermelho canetinha is a canetinha.
The sky azul canetinha is a canetinha.
The sky canetinha is a canetinha.
The tan canetinha is a canetinha.
The teal canetinha is a canetinha.
The violeta canetinha is a canetinha.
The branca canetinha is a canetinha.
The amarelo canetinha is a canetinha.
A bucket is a pointer to a bucket record.
A byte pointer is a pointer to a byte.
A pdevmode is a pointer to a devmode.
A número pointer is a pointer to a número.
A pdf pointer is a pointer to a pdf.
A process pointer is a pointer to a process.
A rgb pointer is a pointer to a rgb.
A sockaddrptr is a pointer to a sockaddr.
A spot pointer is a pointer to a spot.
A talker is a pointer to a talker object.
A talker vtable is a pointer to a talker vtable record.
A thing is a pointer to a thing record.
A vertex array is a pointer to a vertex array record.
An abc pointer is a pointer to an abc.
A pabc is a pointer to an abc.
An addrinfoptr is a pointer to an addrinfo.
An istream is a pointer to an istream object.
An istream vtable is a pointer to an istream vtable record.
A poutlinetextmetric is a pointer to an outlinetextmetric.
A gpgraphic is a pointer.
A gpimage is a pointer.
A gpimageattributes is a pointer.
The heap pointer is a pointer.
A socket is a pointer.
A figura is a polygon.
An anchor is a position.
A caret is a position.
To create a socket given a host string and a port número: \ this guy creates and connects, sets i/o error if there is a problem
The current process is a process.
A query byte is a query string.
A measure is a ratio.
A dos header is a record with
An import header is a record with
A pe header is a record with
A pe section header is a record with
An addrinfo is a record with
Some addrinfo routines is a record with
A bitmapdata is a record with
A devmode is a record with
A docinfo is a record with
A filetime is a record with
A gcpresults is a record with
A gdiplusstartupinput is a record with
A gprect is a record with
A in_addr is a record with
An istream vtable record is a record with
A msg is a record with
A outlinetextmetric is a record with
A paintstruct is a record with
A panose is a record with
A printdlgex is a record with
A processinfo is a record with
A rgb is a record with
A sockaddr is a record with
A startupinfo is a record with
A systemtime is a record with
A talker vtable record is a record with
A textmetric is a record with
A urlcomponents is a record with
A uuid is a record with
A win32finddata is a record with
A window class is a record with
A wsadata is a record with
A big-endian unsigned wyrd is a record with 2 bytes.
An abc is a record with a número called abca, a número called abcb, a número called abcc.
A talker object is a record with a talker vtable called vtable.
An istream object is a record with an istream vtable called vtable.
A skinny rectangle is a rectangle.
The reply is a reply.
A rect is a roundy box [that may have a 0 radius].
The current routine is a routine.
The shape clipboard is a shape clipboard.
The find shape is a shape.
A focus shape is a shape.
A group shape is a shape.
A landscape sheet is a sheet.
A portrait sheet is a sheet.
An origin is a spot.
The zero spot is a spot.
An alignment is a string [center, left, or right].
The find mode is a string [find, check spelling, check spelling - entire document, check spelling - current page only].
The space string is a string equal to " ".
The document version is a string equal to "cal-3024".
The crlf string is a string equal to $0D0A.
A path link is a string thing.
An abort message is a string.
A moniker is a string.
A phrase is a string.
An alternative is a string.
The answer is a string.
A acionador is a string.
A mode is a string.
A prompt is a string.
A question is a string.
A shortcut is a string.
A binary string is a string.
A buffer is a string.
A description is a string.
A drive kind is a string.
A drive name is a string.
The find string is a string.
A hex string is a string.
The i/o error is a string.
A kind is a string.
A message is a string.
A name is a string.
An operation is a string.
A punch line is a string.
A query string is a string.
A recipient is a string.
A reply is a string.
A sender is a string.
An smtp server is a string.
A subject is a string.
A substring is a string.
A token is a string.
A url is a string.
A wide string is a string.
A label is a string.
A nibble string is a string. \ $0010A0...
A file name is a string. \ after the last slash to end of path = file.ext
A file name w/o extension is a string. \ after the last slash to last dot or end of path = file
A path is a string. \ complete name = c:\folder1\folder2\file.ext
An extension is a string. \ last dot to end of path = .ext
A directory name is a string. \ rightmost directory with slash = folder2\
A designator is a string. \ rightmost directory with slash = folder2\ OR after the last slash to end of path = file.ext
A directory name w/o slash is a string. \ rightmost directory without slash = folder2
A drive is a string. \ start of path to first slash = c:\ OR start of path to fourth slash = \\computer\share\
A pdf string is a string. \ string surrounded by ( ) and has \( for left paren, \) for right paren, \\ for backslash
To decide if a byte is a string:
To decide if a choice is a string:
A global body is a substring.
A nibble substring is a substring.
A routine body is a substring.
A routine header is a substring.
A word is a substring.
To decide if the caret of a text is a t the beginning:
To decide if the caret of a text is a t the end:
The current tab is a tab.
A free tab is a tab.
The break tag is a tag equal to 1.
The increment tag is a tag equal to 10.
The intel tag is a tag equal to 11.
The jump false tag is a tag equal to 12.
The load address tag is a tag equal to 13.
The load eax tag is a tag equal to 14.
The loop tag is a tag equal to 15.
The not tag is a tag equal to 16.
The prolog tag is a tag equal to 17.
The push address tag is a tag equal to 18.
The push value tag is a tag equal to 19.
The call external tag is a tag equal to 2.
The save eax tag is a tag equal to 20.
The repeat tag is a tag equal to 21.
The routine address tag is a tag equal to 22.
The call indirect tag is a tag equal to 3.
The call internal tag is a tag equal to 4.
The dereference tag is a tag equal to 5.
The end if tag is a tag equal to 6.
The epilog tag is a tag equal to 7.
The exit tag is a tag equal to 8.
The finalize tag is a tag equal to 9.
The talker is a talker.
An expression is a term.
The terminal is a terminal.
An entry is a thing with
A fragment is a thing with
An import is a thing with
A monikette is a thing with
A routine is a thing with
A type is a thing with
A variable is a thing with
A command is a thing with
The dialog is a thing with
A tab is a thing with
A source is a thing with
A node is a thing with
A console is a thing with
A crypt session is a thing with
A dyad is a thing with
An event is a thing with
An index is a thing with
A pdf object is a thing with
A pdf outline entry is a thing with
A picture is a thing with
A text is a thing with
A winhttp request is a thing with
A document is a thing with
A page is a thing with
A shape is a thing with
A terminal is a thing with  a box, some quoras, an output cor, an input cor, and a reply string.
A font info is a thing with \ used for pdf conversion
Some font widths is a thing with \ used for pdf conversion
A choice is a thing with a name and a box.
A block is a thing with a name and some rows.
A source file is a thing with a path and a buffer.
A button is a thing with a roundy box and a name.
A row is a thing with a row# and a string.
A shape refer is a thing with a shape (reference) [text].
A context is a thing with a spot, a box, a heading, a letter height, a cor, a número, \ canetinha width? ***
A quora is a thing with a string and a cor. \ quora is short for "question or answer"
A refer is a thing with a string and a pointer (reference).
A verse is a thing with a string.
A stack entry is a thing with a string.
A string thing is a thing with a string.
A paragraph is a thing with a string.
The lexicon is a thing with an index.
A vertex is a thing with an x coord, a y coord, a spot at the x.
A menu is a thing with some commands.
The Bible is a thing with some verses.
A polygon is a thing with some vertices.
A desert landscape is a thing.




[janela]
The janela principal is a janela.
The window class is a window class.
[/janela]

[tipo]
A tipo embutido is a type.
[/tipo]




The swatch width is a width equal to 1/3 inch.
The submenu width is a width equal to 2 inches.
The palette width is a width equal to 2-1/3 inches.







[Identificador Único Universal]
A clsid is a uuid.
A guid is a uuid.
A iid is a uuid.
[/Identificador Único Universal]

[variável]
	A campo is a variavel.
	A global is a variavel.
	A local is a variavel.
	A parametro is a variavel.
	A literal is a variavel.
	
[/variável]