An aba is a tab.
An abrangência retrita is a local.
An alcunha is a moniker.
An alcunha parcial is a partial moniker.
An altura da fonte is a font height.
An altura de uma letra is a letter height.
An altura is a height.
An ângulo is a angle.
An área de transferência de formas is a shape clipboard.
An área de transferência de página is a page clipboard.
An arquivo is a file.
An arranhão is a scratch .
An aumento is a rise.
An balde is a bucket.
An brilho is a brightness .
An caminho is a path.
An caneta is a pen.
An caractere is a character.
An claridade is a lightness.
An coisa is a thing.
An coluna com # is a column#.
An comando is a command.
An comprimento is a length.
An contador is a counter.
An contagem de baldes is a bucket count.
An contagem de pedaços is a byte count.
An contagem is a count.
An contexto is a context.
An coordenada is a coord.
An cópia is a copy.
An cor de arco íris is a rainbow color.
An corrida is a run.
An deslocamento is a offset.
An diploma is a degree.
An diretório is a directory .
An distância is a distance.
An elemento is a nodette .
An entrada de pilha is a stack entry.
An entrada is a input.
An esquerda is a left.
An evento is a event.
An exibidor de texto is a console.
An figura geométrica is a geometric figure.
An figura is a figure.
An fila de eventos is a event queue.
An forma is a shape.
An grão is a grain.
An grau preciso is a precise degree.
An grupo de componentes is a gptoken.
An grupo de imagens is a gpimage.
An Identificador de Classe is a clsid.
An Identificador de Interface MAPI is a iid.
An Identificador Global Exclusivo is a guid.
An intermediário is a intermediate .
An janela is a window.
An largura is a width.
An letra is a letter. \ não usar o termo carta aqui
An linha de base is a baseline.
An lista is a node.
An locutor is a talker.
An marca is a tick.
An margem is a margin.
An máscara is a mask.
An matiz is a hue.
An máximo divisor comum is a gcd.
An mdc is a gcd.
An metade de um pedaço is a nibble. \ um nibble é basicamente metade de um byte
An metade de um texto is a nibble string.
An milisegundo is a ms.
An milissegundo is a millisecond.
An minialcunha is a monikette.
An mínimo múltiplo comum is a lcm.
An minipixel is a twip.
An mmc is a lcm.
An múltiplo is a multiple.
An nome is a name.
An número aleatório is a  random number.
An número de cor is a colorref.
An número de linha is a row# .
An número de página is a page number.
An número de texto is a string#.
An número de vezes is a times.
An número idendificador de caneta is a hpen.
An número idendificador de fonte is a hfont.
An número idendificador de ícone is a hicon.
An número idendificador de região is a hrgn.
An número identificador de bitmap is a hbitmap.
An número identificador de contexto de dispositivo is a hdc. [hdc = handle to the device context]
An número identificador de espanador is a hbrush.
An número identificador is a handle.
An onda is a wave.
An página is a page.
An painel is a canvas.
An parâmetro longo is a l-param.
An parâmetro word is a w-param.
An pedacinho is a bit.
An pedaço com # is a byte#.
An pedaço contendo uma consulta is a query byte.
An pedaço is a byte.
An polígono is a polygon.
An ponto is a point.
An pontos extras is a extra points.
An porcentagem is a percent.
An posição absoluta is a absolute position.
An processo is a process.
An profundidade is a depth.
An próxima letra is a letra.
An quantia is a amount.
An quociente is a quotient.
An raio is a radius.
An raiz quadrada is a square root.
An recuo direito is a indent.
An recuo para esquerda is a outdent .
An recurso de fonte is a font resource.
An recurso de fonte osmosiana is a recurso de fonte.
An referência de tarefa is a routine reference.
An registro is a record.
An resposta is a reply.
An resto is a remainder.
An retângulo is a rectangle.
An saturação is a saturation.
An segundo is a second.
An seta chique is a fancy arrow.
An setinha is a cursor.
An subtexto is a substring.
An tamanho is a size.
An tarefa is a routine.
The tecla de acento is a key.
The tecla is a key.
An texto de consulta is a query string.
An texto hexadecimal is a hex string.
An texto is a string.
An tipo integrado is a built-in type.
An tipo is a type.
An título is a heading.
An topo is a top.
An unidade is a unit.
An vagão is a buffer.
An variável is a variable.

An pedaço contendo uma aspa francesa simples direita [›] is a pedaço.  \valor 155
An pedaço contendo uma aspa francesa simples esquerda [‹] is a pedaço. \valor 139
An aba atual is a aba.
An aba gratuita is a aba.
An altura da letra grande is a altura da letra.
An altura da letra pequena is a altura da letra.

\An cabeçalho de importação is a registro with
\An endereço called original first thunk,
\A número called timestamp,
\An endereço called forwarder chain,
\An endereço called name memory address,
\An endereço called first thunk memory address.

An caneta is a caneta.
An caneta amarela is a caneta.
An caneta amarela escura is a caneta.
An caneta amarela escura is a caneta.
An caneta amarela mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta amarela mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta amarela mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta amarelo claro is a caneta.
An caneta azul is a caneta.
An caneta azul - petróleo is a caneta.
An caneta azul celeste is a caneta.
An caneta azul celeste mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta azul celeste mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta azul celeste mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul clara is a caneta.
An caneta azul claro is a caneta.
An caneta azul escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta azul mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul-celeste clara is a caneta.
An caneta azul-celeste escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul-celeste mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul-petróleo escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul-petróleo mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta azul-petróleo mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta branca is a caneta.
An caneta bronzeada is a caneta.
An caneta celeste is a caneta.
An caneta celeste is a caneta.
An caneta celeste mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta celeste mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta celeste mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta ciano is a caneta.
An caneta ciano claro is a caneta.
An caneta ciano escuro is a caneta.
An caneta ciano mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta ciano mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta ciano mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta ciano mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta cinza is a caneta.
An caneta cinza claro is a caneta.
An caneta cinza claro is a caneta.
An caneta cinza escuro is a caneta.
An caneta cinza escuro is a caneta.
An caneta cinza mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta cinza mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta de cal is a caneta.
An caneta de cal mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta de cal mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta de cal mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta de cal mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta de céu escuro is a caneta.
An caneta de céu mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta de limão escuro is a caneta.
An caneta de ouro is a caneta.
An caneta laranja is a caneta.
An caneta laranja clara is a caneta.
An caneta laranja escura is a caneta.
An caneta laranja escura is a caneta.
An caneta laranja mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta laranja mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta laranja mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta leve de cal is a caneta.
An caneta magenta is a caneta.
An caneta magenta claro is a caneta.
An caneta magenta escuro is a caneta.
An caneta magenta mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta magenta mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta magenta mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta magenta mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta marrom is a caneta.
An caneta marrom escura is a caneta.
An caneta marrom mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta marrom mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta preta is a caneta.
An caneta rosa is a caneta.
An caneta rosa escuro is a caneta.
An caneta roxa is a caneta.
An caneta roxa clara is a caneta.
An caneta roxa escura is a caneta.
An caneta roxa mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta roxa mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta roxa mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta roxa mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta transparente is a caneta.
An caneta verde is a caneta.
An caneta verde claro is a caneta.
An caneta verde escura is a caneta.
An caneta verde escura is a caneta.
An caneta verde mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta verde mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta verde mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta verde-azulada clara is a caneta.
An caneta verde-azulada mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta verde-azulada mais leve is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha clara is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha escura is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha escura is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta vermelha mais escura is a caneta.
An caneta violeta is a caneta.
An caneta violeta claro is a caneta.
An caneta violeta escura is a caneta.
An caneta violeta escura is a caneta.
An caneta violeta mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta violeta mais clara is a caneta.
An caneta violeta mais escura is a caneta.

An contagem de heap is a número.
An contagem de pilhas e montes is a número.


An cor is a color.

An cor amarela is a color.
An cor amarela clara is a color.
An cor amarela escura is a color.
An cor amarela mais clara is a color.
An cor amarela mais clara is a color.
An cor amarela mais escura is a color.
An cor amarela mais escura is a color.
An cor amarronzada is a color.
An cor azul is a color.
An cor azul - petróleo is a color.
An cor azul celeste is a color.
An cor azul celeste clara is a color.
An cor azul celeste mais clara is a color.
An cor azul celeste mais clara is a color.
An cor azul celeste mais escura is a color.
An cor azul clara is a color.
An cor azul claro is a color.
An cor azul escura is a color.
An cor azul mais clara is a color.
An cor azul mais escura is a color.
An cor azul mais escura is a color.
An cor azul-celeste escura is a color.
An cor azul-celeste mais escura is a color.
An cor azul-petróleo clara is a color.
An cor azul-petróleo escura is a color.
An cor azul-petróleo mais clara is a color.
An cor azul-petróleo mais clara is a color.
An cor azul-petróleo mais escura is a color.
An cor azul-petróleo mais escura is a color.
An cor branca is a color.
An cor bronzeada is a color.
An cor ciano is a color.
An cor ciano claro is a color.
An cor ciano escura is a color.
An cor ciano mais clara is a color.
An cor ciano mais clara is a color.
An cor ciano mais escura is a color.
An cor ciano mais escura is a color.
An cor cinza is a color.
An cor cinza claro is a color.
An cor cinza claro is a color.
An cor cinza escuro is a color.
An cor cinza mais clara is a color.
An cor cinza mais escura is a color.
An cor cinza mais escura is a color.
An cor clara is a color.
An cor clara is a color.
An cor clara de céu is a color.
An cor da área de trabalho is a color.
An cor de arco - íris is a color.
An cor de céu is a color.
An cor de céu mais clara is a color.
An cor de céu mais clara is a color.
An cor de céu mais escura is a color.
An cor de céu mais escura is a color.
An cor de grade is a color.
An cor de limão is a color.
An cor de limão claro is a color.
An cor de limão escuro is a color.
An cor de limão mais clara is a color.
An cor de limão mais clara is a color.
An cor de limão mais escura is a color.
An cor de limão mais escura is a color.
An cor dos comentários is a color.
An cor dourada is a color.
An cor escura is a color.
An cor escura de céu is a color.
An cor esverdeada is a color.
An cor hilita is a color.
An cor laranja is a color.
An cor laranja clara is a color.
An cor laranja clara is a color.
An cor laranja escura is a color.
An cor laranja mais clara is a color.
An cor laranja mais escura is a color.
An cor laranja mais escura is a color.
An cor magent mais clara is a color.
An cor magenta is a color.
An cor magenta clara is a color.
An cor magenta escura is a color.
An cor magenta mais clara is a color.
An cor magenta mais escura is a color.
An cor magenta mais escura is a color.
An cor marrom is a color.
An cor marrom escura is a color.
An cor marrom mais escura is a color.
An cor marrom mais escura is a color.
An cor muito clara is a color.
An cor muito clara is a color.
An cor muito clara is a color.
An cor muito escura is a color.
An cor muito escura is a color.
An cor muito escura is a color.
An cor pastel is a color.
An cor preta is a color.
An cor realmente muito clara is a color.
An cor realmente muito escura is a color.
An cor rosa is a color.
An cor rosa escura is a color.
An cor roxa is a color.
An cor roxa clara is a color.
An cor roxa escura is a color.
An cor roxa mais clara is a color.
An cor roxa mais clara is a color.
An cor roxa mais escura is a color.
An cor roxa mais escura is a color.
An cor sólida is a color.
An cor traçadora is a color.
An cor verde is a color.
An cor verde claro is a color.
An cor verde escura is a color.
An cor verde mais clara is a color.
An cor verde mais clara is a color.
An cor verde mais escura is a color.
An cor verde mais escura is a color.
An cor vermelha is a color.
An cor vermelha clara is a color.
An cor vermelha escura is a color.
An cor vermelha mais clara is a color.
An cor vermelha mais clara is a color.
An cor vermelha mais escura is a color.
An cor vermelha mais escura is a color.
An cor violeta is a color.
An cor violeta clara is a color.
An cor violeta claro is a color.
An cor violeta escura is a color.
An cor violeta escura is a color.
An cor violeta mais clara is a color.
An cor violeta mais escura is a color.


An corte de texto is a número equal to 500.
An cursor de mão is a cursor.
An cursor de seta is a cursor.
An cursor de texto is a cursor.
An endereço is a number.
An etiqueta is a tag.  \já existe o termo label, então tag não pode ser etiqueta, a não ser que label vire marcador.

An etiqueta de carregamento eax is a tag.
An etiqueta de desreferência is a tag.
An etiqueta de endereço de carregamento is a tag.
An etiqueta de endereço de rotina is a tag.
An etiqueta de endereço push is a tag.
An etiqueta de epólogo is a tag.
An etiqueta de finalização is a tag.
An etiqueta de finalização condicional is a tag.
An etiqueta de incremento is a tag.
An etiqueta de loop is a tag.
An etiqueta de prólogo is a tag.
An etiqueta de quebra is a tag.
An etiqueta de repetição is a tag.
An etiqueta de saída is a tag.
An etiqueta de salto falso is a tag.
An etiqueta de salvar eax is a tag.
An etiqueta de valor push is a tag.
An etiqueta externa de chamada is a tag.
An etiqueta indireta de chamada is a tag.
An etiqueta intel is a tag.
An etiqueta interna de chamada is a tag.
An etiqueta não is a tag.



An Identificador Único Universal is a registro with
A número called d1,
A metade de uma barra [wyrd = 2 bytes] called d2,
A metade de uma barra [wyrd = 2 bytes] called d3,
8 pedaços [8 bytes = 2 barras] called d4.

An indicador is a pointer.

An janela principal is a window.
An quantidade de linhas numa folha [rows/sheet] is a number.
The margem de texto is a número equal to 1/24 inch.
An máximo de desfazimentos numa página is a número equal to 32.
An máximo de vezes que se pode desfazer num texto is a contagem equal to 32.

An menu atual is a menu.

An minipixels por pixel [tpp] is some twips.
An minipixels por pixel salvo is a número.
An quantidade de minipixels por polegada is some twips equal to 1440.
An número identificador de modo de dispositivo de impressora is a número identificador.
An número is a number.
An número de cor de arco-íris atual is a número.
[que vai de 1 até 6 indicando, respectivamente as cores, vermelho, laranja, amarelo, verde, azul e roxo]

An número de página memorizado is a número equal to 1.
 
\An número identificador is a handle. 
\An número identificador da caneta is a número identificador.
An número identificador de caneta nula is a número identificador da caneta.

\An número identificador de fonte is a hfont.
An número identificador de fonte nula is a número identificador de fonte.

\An número identificador de bitmap is a hbitmap.
An número identificador de bitmap de memória salvo is a número identificador de bitmap .

\An número identificador de espanador is a hbrush.
An número identificador de espanador nulo is a número identificador de espanador.


An número identificador de fluxo de entrada padrão is a número identificador.
An número identificador de fluxo de saída parão is a número identificador.

An painel da tela is a painel[canvas].
An painel de impressão is a painel.
An painel de memória is painel.

An arquivo pdf is a pdf.

An pedaço contendo acento is a byte equal to 96.
An pedaço contendo acento agudo [´] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas [ “ ] à esquerda is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas à direita [ ” ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas duplas ["] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas duplas inferiores [ „ ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas francesas à direita [»] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas francesas à esquerda [«] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aspas simples à direita [ ’ ]is a right-single-quote byte. a byte.
An pedaço contendo aspas simples inferior [ ‚ ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo avanço de formulário[FF] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo aviso sonoro [BEL] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo barra em pé [|] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo barra invertida [] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo barra reta [|] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo barra vertical [|] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo bloco de fim de transmissão [ETB] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo cancelamento [CAN] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo cedilha is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo comando de exclusão [DEL] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo confirmação [ACK] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo confirmação negativa [NAK] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo consulta [ENQ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo controle de dispositivo dois [DC2] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo controle de dispositivo quatro [DC4] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo controle de dispositivo três [DC3] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo controle de dispositivo um [DC1] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo dois pontos [:]is a colon byte. a byte.
An pedaço contendo escape [ESC] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo escape de link de dados[DLE] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo espaço is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo espaço rígido [&nbsp] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo fim de âmbito [EM] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo fim de texto [ETX] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo fim de transmissão [EOT] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo início de texto [STX] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo início de título [SOH] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo marca registrada [®] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo marca registrada [®] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo marca registrada [®] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo próxima de linha [LF] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo punhal duplo [‡ obelisco, adaga] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo reticências [...] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo retorno de carrinho [Carriage Return] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo símbolo de copyright [©] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo símbolo de fim de parágrafo [¶] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo símbolo de início de parágrafo [§] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo símbolo de menor que [<] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo símbolo de negação [¬] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo símbolo de seção [§] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo sinal de igual [=] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo sinal de menor [<] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo sinal maior de que [>] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo sinal numérico [#] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo tabulação [HT] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo tabulação vertical [BT] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo tecla shift liberada [SO] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo tecla shift pressionada [SI] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um µ [como em µtorrent] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ã com til maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ã com til minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Á maiúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Å maiúsculo com acento anel is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Â maiúsculo com acento circunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um À maiúsculo com crase is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ä maiúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um á minúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um å minúsculo com acento anel is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um â minúsculo com acento circunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um à minúsculo com crase is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ä minúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um abre parênteses [ ( ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um acento circunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Æ maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um æ minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um A-maiúsculo sem acento is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um a-minúsculo sem acento is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um apóstrofo [ ' ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um arroba [@] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um asterisco [*] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um B maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um b minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ç cedilha maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ç cedilha minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um C maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um c minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um cifrão [$] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um cinco [5] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um colchete direito is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um colchete esquerdo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um comando de substituição [SUB] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um cursor de texto [ |, _ ou ^] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um D maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ð maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um d minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ð minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um dois [2] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um dois sobrescrito [²] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um E comercial [&] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um E maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um É maiúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ê maiúsculo com acento circunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um È maiúsculo com acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ë maiúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um e minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um é minúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ê minúsculo com acento circunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um è minúsculo com acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ë minúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um estado ocioso síncrono [espera síncrona SYN] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um F maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um f minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um fecha parênteses [ ) ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um G maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um g minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um H maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um h minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um hífen [-] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um I maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Í maiúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Î maiúsculo com acento cirunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ï maiúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ì maiúsculocom acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um i minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um í minúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um î minúsculo com acento cirunflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ï minúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ì minúsculocom acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um J maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um j minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um K maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um k minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um L maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um l minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um M maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um m minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um mácron [¯] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um N maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ñ maiúsculo com til is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um n minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ñ minúsculo com til is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um nove [9] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um nulo [NUL] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Õ com til maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um õ com til minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um O maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ó maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ø maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ô maiúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ò maiúsculo com acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ö maiúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um o minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ó minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ø minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ô minúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ò minúsculo com acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ö minúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Œ maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um œ minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um oito [8] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um P maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um p minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto [.] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto de exclamação [!] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto de exclamação invertido [¡] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto de interrogação [?] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto de interrogação invertido [¿] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto e vírgula [;] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto médio grosso [•] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ponto médio normal [·] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um punhal [adaga †] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Q maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um q minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um qualificador feminino [ª] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um qualificador masculino [º] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um quatro [4] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um R maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um r minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um S duplo [ß] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um S maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Š maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um s minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um š minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um seis [6] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um separador de arquivo [FS] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um separador de grupo [GS] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um separador de registro [RS] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um separador de unidade [US] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sete [7] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de centavo [¢] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de divisão [÷] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de euro [€] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de grau [°] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de iene [¥] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de libra [£] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um símbolo de multiplicação [×] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de adição [+] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de mais [+] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de mais ou menos [±] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de menos [-] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de por milhar [‰] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de porcentagem [%] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal de porcento [%] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sinal monetário [¤] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um sublinhado [_] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um T maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um t minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Þ maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um þ minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um til [~] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um traço médio [–] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um traço pequeno [­] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um travessão [—] is a byte equal to .
An pedaçõ contendo um três [3] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um três sobrescrito [³]is a superscript-three byte. a byte.
An pedaço contendo um U maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ú maiúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Û maiúsculo com acento circumflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ù maiúsculo com acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ü maiúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um u minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ú minúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um û minúsculo com acento circumflexo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ù minúsculo com acento grave is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ü minúsculo com trema is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um V maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um v minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um W maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um w minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um X maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um x minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Y maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ÿ maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ý maiúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um y minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ÿ minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ý minúsculo com acento agudo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Z maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um Ž maiúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um z minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um ž minúsculo is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo um zero [0] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma aspa portuguesa direita [›] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma aspa portuguesa esquerda [‹] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma aspa simples à esquerda [ ‘ ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma barra [/] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma barra reta quebrada [¦] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma chave direita [}] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma chave esquerda [ { ] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma exclamação [!] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma fração de três quartos [¾] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma fração de um meio [½] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma fração de um quarto [¼] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma símbolo de libra esterlina [£] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma unidade [1] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma unidade sobrescrita [¹] is a byte equal to .
An pedaço contendo uma vírgula [,] is a byte equal to .

A entrada da pilha is a coisa with a texto.
The pilha is a some stack entries.

\A contexto is a coisa with a spot[local], a caixa, a título, a tamanho da letra, a cor, a número, \ pen width? ***
The contexto da pilha is some contexts.
An pilha de contexto is a context stack.

An pixels por polegada is some twips.
An processo atual is a process.
An recuo de documento is a número equal to 2.
The semente aleatória is a número. \ https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semente_aleatória 
An latido is a wave. \ originalmente é um cacarejo, mas pretendo mudar.

The tamanho de quadrado is a some twips.
The tamanho da caneta is a número.

An tecla is a número.

The tecla de acento is a tecla equal to 192.
The tecla-a is a tecla equal to 65.
The tecla alt is a tecla equal to 18.
The tecla asterisco de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 106.
The tecla b is a tecla equal to 66.
The tecla backspace is a tecla equal to 8.
The tecla c is a tecla equal to 67.
The tecla caps lock is a tecla equal to 20.
The tecla cinco is a tecla equal to 53.
The tecla mais de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 107.
The tecla ctrl is a tecla equal to 17.
The tecla d is a tecla equal to 68.
The tecla Windows direita is a tecla equal to 92.
The tecla de deletar is a tecla equal to 46.
The tecla de escape is a tecla equal to 27.
The tecla de espaço is a tecla equal to 32.
The tecla End is a tecla equal to 35.
The tecla de menu de contexto is a tecla equal to 93.
The tecla Page Down is a tecla equal to 34
The tecla Page Up is a tecla equal to 33.
The tecla Pause is a tecla equal to 19.
The tecla de separador numérico is a tecla equal to 110.
The tecla seis no teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 102.
The tecla de seta para a direita is a tecla equal to 39.
The tecla de seta para a esquerda is a tecla equal to 37.
The tecla de seta para baixo is a tecla equal to 40.
The tecla de seta para cima is a tecla equal to 85.
The tecla de sinal de igual is a tecla equal to 187.
The tecla Numlock is a tecla equal to 144.
The tecla cinco De teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 53.
The tecla dois de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 98.
The tecla nove de teclado numérico  is a tecla equal to 105.
The tecla quatro de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 100.
The tecla três de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 99.
The tecla oito de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 104.
The tecla sete de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 103.
The tecla um de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 97.
The tecla Print Screen is a tecla equal to 44.
The tecla de traço is a tecla equal to 189.
The tecla três is a tecla equal to 51.
The tecla dois is a tecla equal to 50.
The tecla e is a tecla equal to 69.
The tecla Enter is a tecla equal to 13.
The tecla esc is a tecla equal to 27.
The tecla f is a tecla equal to 70.
The tecla g is a tecla equal to 71.
The tecla h is a tecla equal to 72.
The tecla Home is a tecla equal to 36.
The tecla i is a tecla equal to 73.
The tecla Insert is a tecla equal to 45.
The tecla j is a tecla equal to 74.
The tecla k is a tecla equal to 75.
The tecla l is a tecla equal to 76.
The tecla Clear is a tecla equal to 12.
The tecla m is a tecla equal to 77.
The tecla n is a tecla equal to 78.
The tecla nove is a tecla equal to 57.
The tecla Numlock is a tecla equal to 144.
The barra do teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 111.
The tecla o is a tecla equal to 79.
The tecla oito is a tecla equal to 56.
The tecla p is a tecla equal to 80.
The tecla q is a tecla equal to 81.
The tecla quatro is a tecla equal to 52.
The tecla r is a tecla equal to 82.
The tecla s is a tecla equal to 83.
The tecla scrolllock is a tecla equal to 145.
The tecla seis is a tecla equal to 54.
The tecla sete is a tecla equal to 55.
The tecla shift is a tecla equal to 16.
The tecla t is a tecla equal to 84.
The tecla tab is a tecla equal to 9.
The tecla u is a tecla equal to 85.
The tecla v is a tecla equal to 86.
The tecla w is a tecla equal to 87.
The tecla Windows esquerda is a tecla equal to 91.
The tecla x is a tecla equal to 88.
The tecla y is a tecla equal to 89.
The tecla z is a tecla equal to 90.
The tecla zero is a tecla equal to 48.
The tecla zero de teclado numérico is a tecla equal to 96.