i'll pass CAL onto my research folks to see if they can figure out what set off the alarms. if
they find anything, i'll let you know!

i'm definitely not of the majority group at work. most folks are either mac or windows guys.
even on my team i'm a bit of an outlier.

your procedure for dead-code extraction seems elegant and minimally invasive. very nice.

\ Yes. The IDEAL future starts with a simple hardware stack machine with a simple, deterministic,
\ real-time operating system, similar to a 32-bit version of DOS but written in Plain English, in ROM.
\ The CAL would be in ROM as well, and the machine would be GUI all the time would start up instantaneously.
\ And the whole shebang, due to it's simplicity, would fit on a single chip and require very little power and cooling,
\ and could thus be used for everything from desktops to laptops to robots made by kids. It would be a
\ complete replacement for Macs, PCs, Arduinos, Raspberry-PIs, etc. Picture something like Niklaus Wirth's
\ Oberon system, but with dedicated hardware, Plain English as the core language, and the CAL's honest face.
\ I think we can do the whole thing in 25,000 Plain English sentences or less.

\ We're a bit behind schedule, I admit. But our original vision, I think, is still valid. See our
\ two-page Manifesto for the original words: http://www.osmosian.com/manifesto.pdf
\ And if you know anyone with a lot of money and interest in such a thing, send him my way.

well, i don't have a lot of money, but i have an interest in hardware and virtualization. i've written
a few virtual machines (just little stack-based toys that operate like a reverse-polish-notation
calculator, but with opcodes and such). nothing fancy; nothing to be impressed with; but i've
at least done it and would like to do it again.

do you have specs or a design thought up for chips and architecture? have you written a vm in
Plain English? i bet you could write a simulator in CAL pretty quickly. i bet you could write an ELF
interpreter in Plain English.

nothing really new to report. i just read your response and got excited and had to share. i haven't
heard of Oberon before (except as the name of a dog in the iron druid novels by Kevin Hearne).

anyway, thanks for pointing out the console! i saw that in my perusal of the noodle, but didn't
remember to ask about it.

peace,
mo