so, a clarification: the calculator doesn't need editable text; i was searching through the files
to find implementations of what i thought i needed. i went back a couple of steps to write
something simpler.

\ Left-to-right evaluation of mathematical expressions with no precedence, for another.
\ If you're in doubt on that one, just ask a kid or other normal person what 2 plus 3 times 4 equals.

i think you and i will not agree on the left-to-right evaluation of mathematical expressions with
no precedence. however, if that's the way CAL wants it, and it's clearly codified, i see no problem
with that. it's what lisp does: require the programmer to spell out the precedence, and it'll happily
perform the required calculus.

i am coming to realize that i actually like complicated, tangled, twisted things. i think i get a
deeper sense of accomplishment when i work on messy, cumbersome systems. especially when
i do so in a text-only interface that makes me feel like i'm chiseling bison on cave walls. like
i bootstrapped myself up from the silicon. it's all fantasy, but i think that's one of my
struggles now.

\ And now I'm about to whip up a simple calculator (since you've got me thinking about one) and
\ my first step will be to design the interface on a page in the CAL's Writer - mostly with the mouse.
\ It's not just a personal opinion that a keyboard/mouse combo is MUCH more powerful than a keyboard alone.

i've always been terrible at design and doing anything artistic with my hands. so moving away from
the mouse actually made me more productive--i just focused on the things i was good at. 

i was curious about how you're getting the windows mouse/keyboard events in the kludge. having done
some windows programming (and thinking about porting to a separate system), i was wondering how
you register with the operating system to get those events. i'm sure i can find it with some focused
searching, but i think you probably could point me at it and explain it more succinctly than i would
otherwise glean.

\ And hardly the case with the CAL Manual. Each and every page addresses a different topic.
\ In logical sequence (pages 1-54), then in alphabetical sequence for reference (pages 55-120).

i assure you that i read the whole instruction (pages 1-54). most of it twice. i've gone through
about half of the gray matter material, mostly because it's fun. i did like that the manual addresses
topics individually.

peace,
mo

ps. i have included the simple calculator. since i'm not using version control, i made edits after i
said i got something that looked reasonable.