The cipher is a string equal to "NNNNNOOOOOOOPP…".

To display a cipher in a box (as a picture):
Put the cipher's first into a byte pointer.
Put the box's left-top into a spot.
Loop.
If the spot's y is the box's bottom, break.
Put the byte pointer's target into a byte.
Convert the byte to a color.
Draw the spot with the color.
Add 1 to the byte pointer. If the byte pointer is greater than the cipher's last, break.
Move the spot right 1 pixel.
If the spot's x is the box's right,
put the box's left into the spot's x; move the spot down 1 pixel; repeat.
Repeat.
Refresh the screen.

To encode a message in a cipher given a key:
Put the message's first into a message byte pointer.
Put the cipher's first into a cipher byte pointer.
Loop.
If the message byte pointer is greater than the message's last, break.
Add the key to the cipher byte pointer.
If the cipher byte pointer is greater than the cipher's last, break.
If the message byte pointer's target is the space byte,
put the at-sign byte into the cipher byte pointer's target.
If the message byte pointer's target is not the space byte,
put the message byte pointer's target into the cipher byte pointer's target.
Add 1 to the message byte pointer.
Repeat.

To decode a cipher into a message given a key:
Clear the message.
Put the cipher's first into a byte pointer.
Loop.
Add the key to the byte pointer.
If the byte pointer is greater than the cipher's last, break.
If the byte pointer's target is the at-sign byte,
append the space byte to the message; repeat.
Append the byte pointer's target to the message.
Repeat.

To run:
Start up.
Clear the screen to the tan color.
Imagine a box 3 inches by 3 inches in the middle of the screen.
Move the box left 1-5/8 inches.
Display the cipher in the box (as a picture).
Encode the message in the cipher given 997.
Move the box right 3-1/4 inches.
Display the cipher in the box (as a picture).
Decode the cipher into a decoded message given 997.
Write the decoded message below the box.
Refresh the screen.
Wait for the escape key.
Shut down.

\Note that, in Plain English, "1-5/8 inches" means "one and five-eighths inches", not "one minus five eighths inches". Likewise for "3-1/4".

\Note also that we use 997 for the key because the message is 83 characters long, which is roughly 1/1000 of the 82,944 characters in the image, and 997 is the largest prime less than 1000.