Yo Dan!

\- My responses are prefaced with a hyphen.

And now they're blue, too!

\- Someone trouble-maker in China can't access your physical mailbox. Your real neighbors could go through
\   your mail, but at the risk of commiting a felony. You have no way to know who is looking at your Cal mail.

Okay, THAT could be a problem. But they'd be members of the Osmosian Order of Plain CHINESE Programmers,
 so it will be THEIR problem, not ours. Plain English is for people whose native tongue is English.

\- Directories can be made read-only, or only accessible to certain users. When you mapped the z drive, you used the osmosian/osmosian username/password combination.
\  Multiple users can be set up, but that has to happen on the server.

But anyone who wants to send mail to me still needs "write" privileges on my mailbox, yes?

\- Everything is just directories and files on the disk. I can open my folder anytime. As far as an email your typing, if you've saved the file, I will be able to open it 
\   and read as much as you have saved. The Cal doesn't lock the files when they are open so I could, theoretically, overwrite your email as you were typing it.

Okay, got it. I'm typing this in my "old communications" directory and I'll copy it to your mailbox when I'm done.
That's better anyway because I'll have an "automatic" copy saved too.

\- The line that check's for a nil cell [in the totally sweet Sudoku Solver] should be swapped with the line above it.

Okay, I see that now. The string ran out before the list so it worked, but you're right, it was wrong. Getting old, I guess.

\- No I did not know that ["Run" worked from the Finder], but I've since tried it. That's cool.

Stuck that in all by myself. Still young, I guess.

\- It's awesome that you can communicate in the Cal.
\- Not sure how I feel about messages not being "linked" together. This is more old-school, like sending snail-mail.

That shouldn't surprise you. I like old-school. My phone STILL has a curly cord on it.

\- As you mentioned, it would be nice if the plain text editor wrapped. Which is interesting, since it sounds like even you,
\  wanted to create a flowing stream of text not tied to physical pages.

I've gotten into the bad "flowing stream" habit using regular email and those damn not-quite wysiwyg blog editors.
What works best for conveying ideas is: a little text, a picture, a little text, a picture, etc. Easy to do, flowing-stream,
but they look like crap printed when the next picture doesn't quite fit at the bottom of the current page.
Short paragraphs are pretty easy to re-wrap manually anyway. I'm finding it easier to write these replies than I thought.

In any case, it's hard to find a picture I want from inside the CAL, so there are really several problems that need to be addressed.

But we've still gotten pretty far without making ANY changes to the CAL, don't you think?

\Talk to you soon

Do you mean talk-talk, or write-talk?

Dahd
