REGARDING THE ALTERNET:

Security is a good question. As you know, I don't think much about security. We still leave the keys in the car, etc.

Miscellaneous Thoughts:

• The Alternet is not for the world at large. It's a PRIVATE 'net for trusted members of the Osmosian Order only.

• What prevents the guy next door from going through (or putting a bomb in) my real-life mailbox?

• Is it possible to make some directories (like the CAL-4700 one) read-only and/or password protected?

REGARDING HOW WELL THIS WORKS:

Positive: It's different but FUN writing emails in the CAL! It's great that the exe I sent you didn't get bounced by some faulty email virus detector.
And that I didn't have to think differently about the stuff I wanted to send you (eg, zip it up, whatever).

Negative: It was a pain finding the right fractal forest JPG to paste into my other page. And I have to do manual text-wrapping here.

Conclusion: So far, so good.

Question:

1. How does this work multi-user-wise? I'm typing this response directly in your inbox; what happens if you try to access your inbox while I'm typing?

REGARDING THE SUDOKU THING:

I didn't think up that algorithm; I found it on Wikipedia. I likewise "cheated" with my maze program and my travelling salesman program
and my Bresenham's circle drawing program (that proves that Pi is 17/6 or 4, but not 3.141596... by counting the actual pixels in the circumference
or getting the minkowski distance between those pixels). It's amazing how much easier it is to translate Pascal into Plain English than C.

The Sudoku algorithm is fast enough with easy puzzles, but you have to comment out the intermediate drawing with hard puzzles.

In any case, it was a good exercise in how to simulate overlapping two-dimensional arrays in linked lists.

I'm not sure what you mean by "should the nil check happen before you possibly put 0 into the cell's number?"
I left out most of the nil checking to keep the routines short and sweet for the Indians (dots not feathers) on GeeksForGeeks.

Did you notice that the 4700 series lets you run any exe from inside the CAL? Just select the exe and CTRL-R.

FROM SHARON:

Sharon wants to know if you think sending email like this is AWESOME or not.
