The step is a number.
A fruit is a thing with a name.

To run:
Start up.
Create some fruits.
Write the step and the fruits on the console (on a single line).
Skip a line on the console.
Sort the fruits.
Write the fruits on the console.
Destroy the fruits.
Wait for the escape key.
Shut down.

\ descomente a rotina abaixo, e comente a rorina acima para obter o tempo de compilação do programa:
\To run:
\Start up.
\Write "Working…" on the console.
\Put 10000 into a count.
\Create some fruits using "apple" and the count.
\Start a timer. Sort the fruits. Stop the timer.
\Write the timer then " milliseconds for " then the count on the console.
\Destroy the fruits.
\Put 100000 into the count.
\Create the fruits using "apple" and the count.
\Start the timer. Sort the fruits. Stop the timer.
\Write the timer then " milliseconds for " then the count on the console.
\Destroy the fruits.
\Put 1000000 into the count.
\Create the fruits using "apple" and the count.
\Start the timer. Sort the fruits. Stop the timer.
\Write the timer then " milliseconds for " then the count on the console.
\Destroy the fruits.
\Wait for the escape key.
\Shut down.


To create some fruits:
Add "banana" to the fruits.
Add "apple" to the fruits.
Add "orange" to the fruits.
Add "bacon" to the fruits.
Add "pineapple" to the fruits.
Add "pomegranate" to the fruits.
Add "tomato" to the fruits.
Add "grape" to the fruits.
Add "fig" to the fruits.
Add "date" to the fruits.

To add a name to some fruits:
Allocate memory for a fruit.
Put the name into the fruit's name.
Append the fruit to the fruits.

To sort some fruits:
If the fruits' first is the fruits' last, exit.
Split the fruits into some left fruits and some right fruits.
Sort the left fruits.
Sort the right fruits.
Loop.
Put the left fruits' first into a left fruit.
Put the right fruits' first into a right fruit.
If the left fruit is nil, append the right fruits to the fruits; break.
If the right fruit is nil, append the left fruits to the fruits; break.
If the left fruit's name is greater than the right fruit's name,
move the right fruit from the right fruits to the fruits; repeat.
Move the left fruit from the left fruits to the fruits.
Repeat.
Add 1 to the step.
Write the step and the fruits on the console (on a single line).