Hello Papa Pablo,

I did not know about Gherkin/Cucumber until you mentioned it. I just read an article about it.
It wasn't clear to me what it does. Or why. But I'm pretty sure it's not a general-purpose programming langauge, like Plain English.
And I'm pretty sure that Gherkin/Cucumber wasn't written in Gherkin/Cucumber.

But it's nice to see people starting to think about "programming" in natural languages.
You've probably already started "programming" little Martin Amin's brain, using a natural language to do it.
It's an interesting study. And frustrating. Unlike a hardware or software bug, a "wetware" bug often has to be fixed over and over again.

Based on your previous post, it looks like Martin Amin came with a whole BASKET of bread under his arm! Good for you!
I must say, however, that I was a little dismayed by how much "C" you appear to be teaching.
I've noticed, over the years, that people who are nurtured in the "C" tradition (as opposed to the BASIC, Pascal, or COBOL traditions)
seem to think differently (and not altogether clearly) about programming in general.
But I understand that you have to work with what the authorities give you.

Did you get a chance to try the Jigsaw Puzzle program (with interface and file manager) I sent?
It's interesting how soon interface and file system issues intrude on programming languages, and how difficult it is
to separate the two.

Gerry


\Original messages:

\Dear Gerry,

\Recently a coleague told me about Gherkin/Cucumber, that seems to be a tool that uses some Plain English construction to 
\describe testing situations or the like.
\Do you know about it?

\Pablo Cayuela

\Dear Gerry,

\I'm an 18-year professor by now in my university (UTN FRC), but this year two private universities call me to teach.
\That's good news to me (old saying here "Todo hijo viene con un pan bajo el brazo", and I take it), but it takes some time
\to prepare new materials and get accustomed to its paperwork; it also implies a daily moving from place to place.

\Nowadays, I've been teaching and giving exams:

\My usual work at Cordoba,
\- Physics Basics (South Cone) summer course to enter the University. Yearly.
\- Computer Architecture summer course for Information Systems Eng. freshmen. Only this year for people that not passed last year course .
\- Computer Architecture for Information Systems Eng. freshmen. Second semester.
\- Ladder programming, Electrical Machines and Installations for Electronics Eng. juniors. All year long.
\- SoC in VHDL for CPLD & FPGA for Electron. Eng. seniors. First semester.
\- PC boot process programming and embedded C programming for Electron. Eng. juniors. I travel monthly 500 km 
\   away to La Rioja city to teach this. All year long.

\New ones at Cordoba,
\- Flow Diagrams and C Basics in Programming Fundamentals for freshmen. First semester.
\   (I'm tempted to use your plain English as executable "pseudocode" but Students rarely understand English!
\   I neither do have that liberty or endorsement from authorities.)
\- Electricity Basics on a lab for Robotics Technician freshmen. First semester.

\Pablo Cayuela


