Dear Pablo,

Since this file has no extension (like ".txt") the CAL thinks it is Plain English source code and will show comments in blue.
That lets me easily copy your post and put things you wrote in blue with my repsponses in black, like this:

\I found a new strange behavior: yesterday the first time I need to launch CAL with Admin rights in order to view z: drive.
\Today I need to launch it without admin rights to see z:.

I don't know what to say about that. I always run in administration mode.

\Another thing: I check a text view of the welcome file, and found that I only can see "Welcome to the..." but not the action of the inside instructions nor any more messages on screen.
\PS2: What a fool! I press enter over the "Welcome to the..." and voilà!

Seems like you've solved this one yourself. You can put three kinds of things in Osmosian mailboxes.

1. Text files (like this one, with or without the ".txt" extension)
2. Documents created with the CAL's Writer (like the "Welcome to the..." document)
3. Whole programs (in their "project" directories), including pre-compiled executables.

Anything else will be "Opened as Dump".

\Security and access: I found it strange to enter your directory and open everything; I atribbute it to your confidence in me.

Indeed. Osmosian Mailboxes are like real-life mailboxes out by the street. You CAN open your neighbor's box, but it's not considered polite to do so.
And yes, only responsible people whom we trust, like you, are allowed to play.

\In that way I could read about the inner workings and sudoku solver.
\I suggest to delay some more the animation of the solving process or it could be adjustable to see the steps of the solutions.

I made the program as short as possible because I only wanted to show the geeks at GeeksForGeeks that you don't have to know C++ to do "recursive backtracking".

\Right now I have not an answer to the nil check question. 

In serious code, we always check pointers for nil before using them (to avoid unexpected failures). I left those checks out in the Sudoku Solver so the geeks wouldn't be distracted.

\About the solution strategy I never think of. By the way, I never solve any sudoku before! My mother was a fan of.

The solution strategy in the program is suitable only for a machine; there are much better strategies for humans.
My wife Sharon likes Sudoku puzzles. The Amazon Kindle has a nice user-solveable Sudodu program.
 
\Launching sudoku solver from z: drive: sudoku windows open just a moment; then is on my windows panel but can show again nor press enter to solve, because I can't view it maximized again.
\I can't close it by clicking the iconic window that resemble the big sudoku. I only could kill the task on task manager. 

That's because I left out Windows' "refresh" event in the program. The program is still running, it just isn't drawing it's face on the screen.
If you're compiling and running inside the CAL, you can just get back to the CAL and use the "Stop" command on the "S" menu instead of using the task manager to kill it.

\PS: I found an awful use of O-Mail in the internet, offuscated mail.

I still like the Irish version, "O'Mail".

Gerry McIntyre Rzeppa



