Yo, Dan.

Thanks for your help. Once again, I couldn't have done it without you.
It's really cool how the SAL (The Spanish-speaking CAL, short for Salvador, which means "savior")
can understand both languages. Surely our approach must have been architecturally sound
for that to happen so easily. I guess Gary Larson ("What we say to dogs") was on the right track.

This is the letter I just sent to Pablo:

Hello, Pablo,

I'm too excited to translate this letter into Spanish.

Look in your mailbox here for two new directories:

sal-1000
#1 prueba español llano

The first directory (SAL-1000) is the new Spanish/English development system.
It is far from complete. It is a little baby boy with a light blue desktop.
But it is enough, I think, to show that this project is feasible.
All of the menu items (except for "Ejecutar", shortcut CTRL-E) are still in English.
All of the error messages are still in English.
You can compile the SAL-1000 with the CAL-4700, or you can just run the .exe that is in the directory.

The second directory (#1 prueba español llano) contains my test program.
You can open and run (ejecutar) it using the SAL-1000.
There are two source files: "el código" and "la biblioteca."
"El código" is the all-Spanish test code.
"La biblioteca" is the mostly-English but just-enough-Spanish version of the Noodle.

Much remains to be done:

The SAL needs more simple verbs and prepositions.
The menus need to be translated to Spanish.
The error messages need to be translated to Spanish.
More of the Noodle (la biblioteca) needs to be translated to Spanish.
The whole SAL needs to be translated into Spanish... or maybe not,
depending on what we're picturing in the long term:

(a) two separate systems, Plain English and Español Llano; or
(b) one hybrid system, like the SAL (see remark below);
(c) something else.

The problem with (a) is that English and Spanish code can't be shared.
The problem with (b) is that the interface and error messages must be either English or Spanish.
The problem with (c) is that we haven't thought it up yet!

Let me know what you think, and may God prosper the work of our hands,

Gerry


