\I'll take a look at those routines.

\I may try updating "To lowercase a byte" to use the Windows function CharLower

\https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms647467(v=vs.85).aspx

\This should handle all the goofiness of other languages.

\I'll let you know what I come up with.

Whatever works. We need uppercase, too. And string comparisons. But...
I notice the Windows string compare functions use null-terminated strings.
I don't know if that will be a problem. For example, right now we can compare one hex string to another.

Thanks for your help.

Pablo has gotten permission from the authorities at one of the three Universities where he teaches
to teach an introductory programming course using Español Llano (Plain Spanish), so Sharon is
very happy about this. She has prayed, for years, that I might get a chance to teach Plain English
at a college level somewhere. It's not likely that any college will let me teach,  but Pablo teaching it,
albeit in Spanish, is close enough to count as an anwer to prayer.

Still a lot of conversion left. Our goal is to get the SAL to the level of the CAL-3041
(as it was when we released the thing back iin 2006). So Pablo is translating the instruction manual,
page by page, and I'm trying to translate the code so it matches what he comes up with.
So far we're on page 5 or 6. The menus are in Spanish now, and I'm working on the status messages.
After that comes the compiler error messages, the SAL Monet, then all the stuff in the "Gray Matter Glossary".
Then the SAL-3041 (or whatever it is by then) will become Pablo's baby and the rest of the
translation will be up to him and his students.

Pablo is very dedicated to this work, even saying things like:

\It is an honor for me. I'm on my knees with your sword on my shoulder.

"El Primer Caballero (First Knight) de la Orden Osmosiana de los Programadores Español Llano"

So the Grand Negus and El Primer Caballero are counting on you, the Prime Assembler, to
help us with the hard stuff.

Muchas gracias,

Dahd






