\ COBOL DATA DIVISION

A calculator is a thing with a box, a display box, and some buttons.

A button is a thing with a name and a box.

The calculator is a calculator.

\ COBOL PROCEDURE DIVISION

\ MAIN LOOP AND HANDLERS THAT DELEGATE TO WORKER-BEES

To run:
Start up.
Create the calculator.
Handle events.
Destroy the calculator.
Shut down.

To handle events:
Deque an event.
If the event is nil, exit.
Handle the event.
Repeat.
 
To handle an event:
If the event's kind is "set cursor", handle the event (set cursor); exit.
If the event's kind is "refresh", handle the event (refresh); exit.
If the event's kind is "left click", handle the event (left click); exit.
If the event's kind is "left double click", handle the event (left click); exit. \ for fast entry
If the event's kind is "key down", handle the event (key down); exit.

To handle an event (left click):
Find a button given the event's spot.
If the button is nil, cluck; exit.
If the button's name is "enter", handle enter; exit.
If the button's name is "+", handle add; exit.
If the button's name is "-", handle subtract; exit.
If the button's name is "*", handle multiply; exit.
If the button's name is "/", handle divide; exit.
handle new digit using the button's name.

To handle an event (key down):
If the event's key is the escape key, quit; exit.
If the event's key is the enter key, handle enter; exit.
If the event's byte is the cross byte, handle add; exit.
If the event's byte is the dash byte, handle subtract; exit.
If the event's byte is the asterisk byte, handle multiply; exit.
If the event's byte is the slash byte, handle divide; exit.
Put the event's byte into a string.
If the event's byte is between the zero byte and the nine byte, handle new digit using the string; exit.
Cluck.
 
\ WORKER-BEE HANDLERS (the stack and related routines are in the Noodle)

To handle an event (set cursor):
Show the arrow cursor.

To handle an event (refresh):
Show everything.

To handle enter:
Put "" on the stack.
Show everything.

To handle add:
If the stack has just one thing on it, handle error; exit.
Get a number from the stack.
Get another number from the stack.
Add the other number to the number.
Put the number on the stack.
Show everything.

To handle subtract:
If the stack has just one thing on it, handle error; exit.
Get a number from the stack.
Get another number from the stack.
Subtract the number from the other number.
Put the other number on the stack.
Show everything.

To handle multiply:
If the stack has just one thing on it, handle error; exit.
Get a number from the stack.
Get another number from the stack.
Multiply the number by the other number.
Put the number on the stack.
Show everything.

To handle divide:
If the stack has just one thing on it, handle error; exit.
Get a number from the stack.
Get another number from the stack.
Divide the other number by the number.
Put the other number on the stack.
Show everything.

To handle new digit given a digit string:
If the stack's first's string's length is 9, cluck; exit.
Append the digit to the stack's first's string.
Show everything.

To handle error:
Put "" on the stack.
Show everything.

\ HELPERS

To find a button given a spot:
Void the button.
Loop.
Get the button from the calculator's buttons.
If the button is nil, exit.
If the spot is in the button's box, exit.
Repeat.

\ SHOW AND DRAW ROUTINES (SHOWs refresh the screen; DRAWs don't - see "Avoiding Flicker", page 24 of the Manual)

To show everything:
Clear the screen without refreshing.
Draw the calculator.
Refresh the screen.

To draw the calculator:
Put the gold color into a color.
Draw the calculator's box with the color.
Draw the calculator's display with the color.
Put "osmosian" and 1/2 inch into a font.
Draw the stack's first's string in the calculator's display with the green color and the font and "center".
Draw the calculator's buttons with the color and the font.

To draw some buttons with a color and a font:
Get a button from the buttons.
If the button is nil, exit.
Draw the button with the color and the font.
Repeat.

To draw a button with a color and a font:
Draw the button's box with the color.
Draw the button's name in the button's box with the color and the font and "center".

\ CREATE ROUTINES

To create the calculator:
Allocate memory for the calculator.
Make the calculator's box 3-1/4 inches by 4 inches.
Center the calculator's box in the screen's box.
Put the calculator's box into the calculator's display.
Indent the calculator's display 1/4 inch.
Subtract 3 inches from the calculator's display's bottom.
Create the calculator's buttons.
Put "" on the stack.

To create some buttons:
Put the calculator's left plus 1/4 inch into a left.
Put the calculator's top plus 1 inch into a top. 
Add a button with "7" and the left and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add another button with "8" and the left plus 3/4 inch and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a third button with "9" and the left plus 1-1/2 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a fourth button with "/" and the left plus 2-1/4 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add 3/4 inch to the top.
Add a fifth button with "4" and the left and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a sixth button with "5" and the left plus 3/4 inch and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a seventh button with "6" and the left plus 1-1/2 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a eighth button with  "*" and the left plus 2-1/4 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add 3/4 inch to the top.
Add a ninth button with "1" and the left and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a tenth button with "2" and the left plus 3/4 inch and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a eleventh button with "3" and the left plus 1-1/2 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a twelfth button with "-" and the left plus 2-1/4 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add 3/4 inch to the top.
Add a thirteenth button with "0" and the left and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a fourteenth button with "ENTER" and the left plus 3/4 inch and the top and 1-1/4 inch and 1/2 inch.
Add a fifteenth button with "+" and the left plus 2-1/4 inches and the top and 1/2 inch and 1/2 inch.

To add a button given a name and a left and a top and a width and a height: \ (we use ADD to mean "CREATE and APPEND to a list")
Allocate memory for the button.
Put the name into the button's name.
Make the button's box with the left and the top and the left plus the width and the top plus the height.
Append the button to the calculator's buttons.

\ ROUTINES THAT SHOULD BE IN THE STANDARD NOODLE BELOW

To clear the screen without refreshing:
Draw the screen's box with the black color and the black color.