Dear Gerry,

I'm working with modified SAL-1004.

\What does ctrl + alt + broken bar do in the SAL?
Oh, as I said before, it is working fine, please see: |
\What does alt gr + broken bar do in the SAL?
And see again: |
The only thing that I could say, is that you do not design it as a broken but as a solid vertical bar.

\\A rule of thumb: nouns and adjectives ending with -o: masculine; in -a: feminine; in -e: neutral or both uses masc./fem.; others: no rule; there are some exceptions.
\Thanks, that helps. I can probably remember "el with -o; la, lo, las, los with everything else." Not perfect, but not bad for a gringo!
Sorry querido gringo, I misleading you somewhat:
el/los: masc., sing. and plural respectively. 
la/las: fem., sing. and plural respectively. 
lo: neutral singular for special sentences not usual ones.

Some examples:
art. + noun 
sm: El evento. The event.
pm: Los eventos. The events.
By the way: el seso (the brain) -> los sesos (the brains)

sf: La tecla. The key.
pf: Las teclas. The keys.

sn + m: Lo blanco de tu cara. The whiteness of your face.
sn + f: ¡Lo blanca que es la leche! How white is the milk!

art. + noun + adj.: the three need to match in gender and number. You could see the regularity of plural cases.
sm: -o: El evento último. The last event.
sf: -a: La tecla última. The last key.

sm: -os: Los eventos últimos. The last events.
sf: -as: Las teclas últimas. The last keys.

Now with an adj. of neutral gender
pm: -o -e: El evento reciente.The recent event.
pf: -a -e: La tecla reciente. The recent key.

pm: -os -es: Los eventos recientes.The recent events.
pf: -as -es: Las teclas recientes. The recent keys.

But watch out! Nouns ending in -e, have no clear rule:

Masculinos:
el hombre, el cable, el aire, etc.: the man, the cable, the air.
los hombres, los cables, los aires: the men, the cables, the airs.

Femeninos:
la cumbre, la pirámide, la serie, etc.: the summit, the pyramid, a (or the) series 
las cumbres, la pirámides, las series: the summit, the pyramids, the series


Tu compañero Quijote, Pablo.