Dear Gerry,

I choose plan A. Please give me detailed instructions on how to make changes to all Español Llano.

Tu amigo quijote.
Pablo
---------------------------------------------------

Dear Pablo,

I am glad to hear you and your family are well.

Did you get my message sent 14-03-2018 labeled "attention attention attention attention attention attention attention"?

I am afraid you have been working on an obsolete version of the instrucciones.

The instruccciones that are consistent with the SAL-1015 are the ones in the documentación directory
in the SAL-1015 directory. Those instructions include minor changes like this on page 4...

"Mi código - sólo 25,000 líneas de Español Llano e Inglés Sencillo - tiene un alcance sorprendentemente amplio."

...since there is still a lot of English in the program. Those instructions also include changes to the Glossary
to match the SAL-1015's "El Seso" file.

I do not think I changed much in the Sal Monet section, so your revised pages 14-54 are probably good.
(Any errors in that section will show up when you have a Spanish-speaking programmer attempt to recreate the Sal Monet.)
But you will save yourself a lot of time if you start with the Glossary pages (55-120) from the SAL-1015 documentación directory.
Those pages are consistent with the 927 Spanish headers I put in the SAL-1015's "El Seso" file.
You know you can easiily copy and paste groups of pages from one document to another, yes?

I see that you have an orange square on page 50, but I don't know what that means.

I also see you have a note on page 46 that reads:

"la subcadena primero -> debería ser la subcadena primera"

Fixing that requires changes to:

1. El Compilador (for types defined as "cosas");
2. El Seso (for cadenas, subcadenas, and escáneres);
3. El Sal Monet;
4. Many places in the Instrucciones.

(A) I can give you detailed instructions describing how to make those changes,
 or
(B) I can fix El Compilador and El Seso for you, but you will still have to fix the Sal Monet and the Instrucciones.

Plan (A) will be more work for you, but it will teach you how to make changes in the future.

Let me know if you prefer plan (A) or plan (B).

Gerry