Querido Gerry:



\I have called in the expert (my son Dan) to help with the posssesive problem. He's working on it now.
Thanks to Dan for helping us!

\I have also change the name of the noodle to "el biblioteca". We could use "el archivo" if you like that better.
\"Noodle" was based on an English idiom where the brain of a person is called their "noodle" because brains
\look a little like spaghetti.
For the noodle, "la biblioteca" is not a bad one for a while. Note the "la" because in Spanish we have genders, and "biblioteca" is feminine. Also we have number
for adjectives, etc.: "las bibliotecas blancas", "los osos blancos", white libraries, white bears. Problems ahead!
For the future, we could use "los sesos", "el seso", "el cacumen". The three options have a touch of humour because are not so common words in everyday use.
\The name of the noodle file, for example, can be anything the programmer wants it to be...
As you say, this is not really a priority; any name would be the same for the compiler.

\So except for the articles, conjunctions, prepositions, simple verbs, and keywords (like EJECUTAR y LAZO y REPETIR),
\the rest will be up to you (and any programmers who write "programas en llano español"), since you're the ones
\who know what "sounds natural" in Spanish.
That's ok!

\By the way, why does Plain Spanish sometimes translate sometimes as "llano español" and sometimes as "español llano"?
\I hope this will not be a problem. The CAL expects adjectives to come before nouns because the ending word(s) of a name
\are supposed to be the type name (if the whole name is not a dictinct type).
\For example, "a number" and "an odd number" and "a very odd number" are all assumed to be variables of type "number".
\Let me know.
This could be a problem: in Spanish adjectives come after the noun, "español llano", "español simple", "número impar".
Only in poetry, or other not so common expressions could find adjectives before noun, "el blanco desierto".
The "llano" is a literal translation of the noun Plain, also "llanura" plains, but could also serve as an adjective for clear, simple or common.
By the way, the name of our language is Castillian ("Castellano" from Castilla) for roughly half the speakers (Argentina, southern countries, some of Spain), 
or Spanish ("Español" from España) for the rest of the world (Mexico, USA, northern countries, some of Spain).
With "Castellano" we could make some word playing like "Llano castellano", "Castellano llano".
Other names for this:
Programación en español/castellano (simple). 
Programando en español/castellano (simple).

\Que Dios prospere el trabajo de nuestras manos.
Que así sea.

Pablo












