Dear Gerry,
\Pablo -
\Your enthusiasm is to be commended.
Sorry for the hurry!
I feel that I'm running besides a cheetah!

\But rushing ahead will only make unnecessary work for both of us. And it will slow things down in the long run.
You're right!
All your recomendations are good for me, I'll try to follow you.

\For example, since we are not yet agreed on the file names (see my remarks on the "Post-It notes) in your "instructions v1" file),
\I'm unable to create a final version of the SAL-1002 project folder.
Ok.

\Another example: since we haven't agreed on a Spanish translation of the word "kluge," which is used as a nickname
\for the "Windows/Intel Combo" throughout the manual, we will have to make multiple changes on multiple pages when that
\particular translation is later settled.
"Armatoste" I suggest. See on Google what it is.

\We also need to learn to work together without "stepping on each other's toes."
Got it.

\There should only be ONE instruction manual file that gets passed back and forth between us.
\No v1, v2, v3, etc. Just the one, official, final (as far as we've gotten) version.
\When it is in your mailbox, it's yours to work on. When it's in my mailbox, it's mine to correct and comment on, and
\I will also update the SAL to agree with the manual as we progress.
\I can only do this if I know that the manual will not change while I'm working.
Done.

\Most importantly, we need to share the same vision:

\I picture you as the "Gran Negus de la Orden Osmosiana de los Programadores en Español Llano"
\as I am the "Grand Negus of the Osmosian Order of Plain English programmers".
It is an honor for me. I'm on my knees with your sword on my shoulder.

\As such, when we're done with the conversion, you must understand the inner workings of the SAL-XXXX enough
\to promote and support the product among other Español Llano Programadores
\(with Dan and I helping only in the background). After all, we don't speak Spanish, and it is
\unlikely that we will learn how without hearing anyone speak the language. But you do
\understand English and programming, so teaching you how the SAL works is easier than teaching us to speak Spanish.
You're right.

\Now maybe you're not interested in an (unpaying) job that big. That's okay, too.
\Maybe you just want to experiment with Español Llano yourself. Or teach some kids how to use it. Or write a paper about it.
\That's all fine. It's your choice.
I could say so for you, I'm glad that you are interested in working in this project for Spanish speakers for free.
Even I appreciate that you gave me the possibility to use Plain English (and now Español Llano) free of charge.
I don't know how to make money from it, and I'm not interested in steal your job.
When you tell me here is the limit I'll stop by. You're the owner of everything I try.

\But either way, a complete, stable, bug-free, well-documented SAL-XXXX is required.
\And the quickest way to get that is to translate the manual and convert the code AT THE SAME TIME.
\Page by page, task by task, resolving issues AS THEY APPEAR.
\Gerry
Take me by the hand.

Pablo

















