Dear Papa Pablo,

1. REFERENCES TO FIELDS IN RECORDS:

In Pascal, we refer to a field within a record using a period, for example...

box.left

...where a "box" is a record and "left" is a field in that record.

In the CAL, we refer to fields within records using 's-style possesives, for example...

the box's left

...where a "box" is a record and "left" is a field in that record.

In the Spanish SAL, we refer to fields within records using prepositional phrases that start with some form of "de", for example...

la izquierda del cuadro

...where "izquierda" is a field in a "cuadro" record.

So the SAL will misunderstand the Spanish names below...

\input/output error  ->  error de Entrada/Salida
\i/o error   ->   error de e/s 

...and will treat the "de" as a name-ender, and will object that "de" was not followed by an article.

We have a similar problem in the CAL where the preposition "of" is a name-ender and thus names like...

the count of students

...are invalid.

Perhaps we can think of a simple way to fix these problems in the future, but for now:

"DE" IS NOT ALLOWED IN NAMES.

2. \Please show me the sentences that your are getting "se" in google.

I can't remember them all, but here is an example:

If the work is not completed, exit. -> Si el trabajo no se completa, salga.

And "salga" should be "salida," since "salga" doesn't just exit the current routine, it ends the program altogether.

3. COLOR NAMES

I'm wondering if the Spanish color names would be easier to remember using a scheme more like this:

el color rojo clarísimo       -> el color rojo muy muy claro
el color rojo claro              -> el color rojo muy claro
el color rojo claro              -> el color rojo claro
el color rojo                       -> el color rojo
el color rojo opaco           -> el color rojo oscuro
el color rojo oscuro          -> el color rojo muy oscuro
el color rojo oscurísimo   -> el color rojo muy muy oscuro

Or would that be too unnatural?

4. MENU COMMAND NAMES

Since I can't read the Spanish command names on the menus, I get by in the SAL by using shortcut keys for most things.
But when I have to get a command off a menu, it strikes me odd that, for example,

Cerrar Todo is under "C" (matching the verb)
Guardar Todo is under "G" (matching the verb)
Selecciona Todo is under "S" (matching the verb)

...but...

Todo Mayúsculas is under "T"
Todo Minúsculas is under "T"

5. In my mind, we're approaching the end of the feasibility study. The translation of the Sal Monet is a major milestone (kilometerstone?)
because it exercises almost every major feature of the compiler...

- statements in sequence
- conditionals
- loops
- routines and subroutines
- global variables
- statically allocated variables
- dynamically allocated variables
- automatically allocated dynamic variables (strings)
- simple types
- record types
- dynamically allocated types
- implicitly defined types (in global variables)
- linked lists
- global variables
- local variables
- parameters
- automatically allocated dynamic variables (strings)
- linked lists
- etc.

...and many features of el seso...

- events
- access to the screen, the keyboard, the mouse, the printer, memory, disks, etc.
- internet access
- colors, fonts, spots, boxes, ellipses, etc.

Based on what I've been able to do with the Sal Monet, I think the project is feasible.
But then I don't speak Spanish, so maybe what I've been coding is as ridiculous and unnatural as "C".
It's kind of like coding in "C" for me since I know what I want to say, but I have to look up how to say it.
I think you are better suited to judge.

So you're not kept in suspense too long, I am going to put the SAL-1005 and the Sal Monet in your mailbox now.
KEEP IN MIND THAT THEY ARE NOT FULLY TESTED. LOTS OF BUGS AND BAD GRAMMAR.

Start with the "sal monet instructions" in the "sal monet" directory. I made the sample screens wider and
translated the code, but I left most of the text in English for you to translate -- LATER, NOT NOW. We have
to get the code right first or my work will erase your work and we'll both end up doing our work twice.

Gerry, tu amigo y compañero en la búsqueda de la verdad y la belleza




