Hello again, Pablo!

I got your partial translation message and made the changes to the SAL-1004.
Only these 65 compiler error messages remain to be translated:

---

You've got the wrong kind of variable here.
I was expecting the word 'to', but found...
I was expecting the word 'routine' but found...
I can't find the [routine name] routine to which you are trying to point.
Invalid 'privatize', I don't understand the variable...
You can only privatize parameters.
Values of type [type name] can't be pushed.
Invalid 'say', I don't understand the variable...
I need a definite 'yes' or 'no' here.
A simple 1, 2, or 4-byte variable is required in the 'returning' clause.
...is not valid in an employ statement.
We always say DECIDE IF, not DECIDE...
I was expecting an 's, but found...
I was expecting the word 'into', but found...
I was expecting an indefinite article, but found...
Invalid employ statement, I don't understand...
Invalid 'as', I don't understand the variable...
I was hoping for an indefinite article after AS, but I found...
I can't find the [type name] type.
I expected a term hereabouts but all I found was...
Invalid dereference, I don't understand the variable...
I'm unable to determine the type of this target.
Invalid negate, I don't understand the variable...
I don't know what you're trying to pull here...
...is already in use as a parameter.
...is already in use as a local variable.
Invalid posigate, I don't understand the variable... \ "posigate" is a made-up word for a plus sign in front of a variable, like +the number or +10 or +"hello" (which is invalid)
Invalid use of magnitude, I don't understand the variable...
Invalid use of target, I don't understand the variable...
You can only get the target of pointer types.
Invalid use of whereabouts, I don't understand the variable...
Invalid use of /, I don't understand the variable...
There's no [field name] field in a [record name].
Recursive reference in employ clause.
...is a duplicate global variable." and the global's locus; exit.
I think I've seen this [type name] type somewhere before; it must be a duplicate.
Could not load the file named...
...is not a valid field name.
Invalid global variable...
I need a literal here, but I found...
Is a period missing around here?
Invalid base type
Recursive definition with...
I can't quite see what you're pointing at. Please clarify.
The [field name] field is defined more than once." and the field's locus; exit.
Exactly what do you mean by '(reference)' here on this [field name]?
The 'to' here needs to be followed by an indefinite article, not...
I was expecting the word 'the', but found...
You have to specify a whole number of bytes for a byte array.
Nothing but the word 'bytes' is appropriate after a counted field designator.
I was expecting an indefinite article, but found...
Geez. I need an 'is' or an 'are' hereabouts, but all I found was...
All global definitions must end with a period. Including this one.
I need the word 'to' after the word 'equal', not...
Your punctuation is bad here.
I was kind of hoping for a name around here, but I found...
You may have forgotten a period somewhere above this. You better check.
This routine header is improperly formulated.
I think that there semi-colon is misplaced.
I was hoping for a definition but all I found was...
I was expecting an 'is' or 'are', but I found...
I was expecting an indefinte article, but I found...
Types need to end with a period, I found...
Zero is an invalid scale.
The type of this global and the type of its literal are not compatible.

---

While you're here, I also need translations for this "event record" and these "event kinds":

---

An event is a thing with
A kind,
A shift flag,
A ctrl flag,
An alt flag,
A spot, \ mouse location on the screen
A key, a byte.

The event kinds are:

REFRESH — It's time to redraw the screen. Somebody messed it up.
SET CURSOR — The cursor has moved. Make it an appropriate shape.
KEY DOWN — Your user is tapping. Do something.
LEFT CLICK — The left button on the mouse just went down. Handle it.
LEFT DOUBLE CLICK — The user has a high degree of dexterity.
RIGHT CLICK — The right mouse button just went down. Start scrolling.
RIGHT DOUBLE CLICK — A super-dextrous user. Play a cheer or something.
DEACTIVATE — You're about to be rudely swapped out. Handled internally.
ACTIVATE — You're back after a rude swap-out. Handled internally.
DONE — Inserted internally. You should never see this event.

I only need translations for the UPPERCASE words at this time. The rest we can translate when
we get to page 72 of the manual.

---

Una vez mas, muchas gracias,

Tu compañero Quijote





