
Dear Papa Pablo,

\I want to write some simple programs to use in teaching the exercises for the students.

Once again, your enthusiasm is to be commended. ¡Bravo!

\I'm having troubles with console not appearing in screen.

I'm not surprised.
La Consola is discussed on page 66 of the manual, and I'm still translating the code to match page 5!

\By the way, I discover that I need to translate parts of the desktop to refresh the screen for example.

Now THAT surprises me. You should not have to change anything in the Desktop to make la consola work.
What did you change?

This is the plan:

1. Page by page, you translate the manual into Spanish and I make the program match.

(a) The Overview section (pages 1 to 12) requires  a lot of program changes - menus, shortcut keys,
status messages, error messages, disk types, etc - so the going is slow at first.
Note that these changes affect the whole program (and not just the Noodle) so they are the hardest
to implement and the hardest to change later.

(b) Unless I've made serious errors, the Sample Program section (pages 13-54) should only require
changes to the types, global variables, and routine headers in the Noodle. A lot of changes,
but only en el seso.

(c) Likewise, the Gray Matter Glossary section (pages 55-120) should only require changes to the
types, global variables, and routine headers in the Noodle. Again, many changes, but only en el seso.

2. At this point, the SAL will be a complete development system y el seso de la SAL will become yours to extend,
enhance, and improve as you see fit.

(a) You may, for example, decide to write Spanish headers for the "Turtle Graphics" routines that are
currently in the Noodle but not documented in the manual.

(b) You may also decide to convert the program's graphics to use metric units (instead of twips)
at the very bottom to make the SAL more compatible with your cultural norms.

(c) You may also decide to develop additional libraries for special purposes, like an interface library for
those automation boards the "pc-control.uk" people sell.

I will of course give you all the help you need, but since Step 2 is almost entirely a translation problem,
I'm not really qualified to do the work myself. If only I were as bi-lingual as you are!

3. You and/or an enterprising student of yours, translate the rest of the SAL to  Spanish so
Español Llano will be all Spanish, all the way down.

---

And now, so you don't lose heart (even though it is getting ahead of ourselves), below is a working version
of your console program. Use the SAL-1003 and el seso that is in the SAL-1003 directory.

Para ejecutar:
Poner en marcha.
Escribir "¡Hola, mundo!" luego " (that's, ""Hello, world!"" in Spanish)" en la consola.
Escribir "Ingrese un número > " en la consola sin avanzar.
Leer un número desde la consola.
Poner el número veces el número en otro número.
Escribir el segundo número en la consola. \ note "segundo", explanation #2 below
Escribir "Presione ENTER para salir" en la consola.
Leer una cadena de la consola.
Apagar.

The console appears automatically when you write to it, or read from it.

NOTES Y QUESTIONS:

The SAL-1003 also has Spanish status and non-compiler error messages, and Spanish dialogs and buttons.
I think you'll feel even more at home with it.

1. We cannot use "por" for "times" (instead of "veces") because "por" is a preposition.
Our "infix operators" (PLUS, MINUS, TIMES, DIVIDED BY, THEN) must translate to Spanish words
that will not be mistaken for articles, prepositions, or simple verbs (like "is" and "has").
If there's a better word, fine. But it can't be an article or a preposition.

2. In English, "another" is an indefinite article, but "other" is an adjective. So we can say
"another" to indicate a parameter or a new local variable, and we use "other" to reference that parameter
or local variable within the routine. For example:

\Put the number times the number into ANOTHER number.
\Write the OTHER number on the console.

In Spanish, however, "otro" appears to serve as both an indefinite article and an adjective, so
this "trick" doesn't work. Specifically:

\Poner el número veces el número en OTRO número. 
\Escribir el OTRO número en la consola.

The compiler reads that second line as...

Write THE ANOTHER number.

...and is confused by the "definite-article indefinite-article" combination.

I solved this by using "segundo" as the adjective corresponding to the indefinite "otro" article.

\Poner el número veces el número en OTRO número.
\Escribir el SEGUNDO número en la consola.

I hope this is satisfactory.

3. There is a similar problem with the Spanish preposition "de" (English "of"). In English, for example, 
the possessive "the box's left" can be written "the left of the box," but the CAL has trouble with the latter
form because "of" is a preposition and prepositions are "name enders" and not "field indicators".
"La izquierda de la caja" fails for the same reason ("de" is not unique enough to use as a "field indicator."
I'm hoping we can solve this by using something like "dentro" as in "la izquierda dentro la caja".

The compiler, as you can see, is really not much smarter than Gary Larson's dog ("blah blah blah GINGER blah blah").
So the trick is to find natural-sounding words that can be used "inline" to indicate infix addition, subtraction,
mulltiplication, division, concatenation of strings, and fields within records. These are things that are
in the program itself (and not just the Noodle), so it is important that we define them carefully.














\Pablo

Para ejecutar:
  Poner en marcha.
  Escribir "Trabajando..." en la consola.
  Mostrar la consola.
  Leer un número desde la consola.
  Refresh the screen.
  Poner el número veces el número en otro número. \ In Spanish we say "por" not "veces" but I'm using it as it was written in current version 1002.
  Mostrar la consola.
  Apagar.
